Last night I went with the family to see the American Idol stage show featuring the top ten contestants from the TV competition. You might wonder why anyone would go watch something he has already seen on TV. But this live performance was way different from TV. Let me count the ways:

 1. It was far more expensive.
 2. It was a five hour drive, round trip.
 3. The singers had that bewildered “What am I doing in Sacramento?” look.
 4. The sound system in the Arco Arena was like four winos farting in a steel drum.
 5. From our seats, the singers looked like colorful grains of rice.
 6. Wooden seats.

This did not deter us from our determination to enjoy being in the same zip code with manufactured minor celebrities who could not be heard above the screaming. At least we could see them on the grainy projection screens on each side of the stage. The large screens reminded me of sweet, sweet television, but without the clarity.

Two enthusiastic girls in front of us brought a huge sign that obscured my view of everything but my own clenched fists. I don’t mean to be unkind, but even without the signage, these girls chewed up a lot of real estate. They were excited to be within mortar distance of actual celebrities. After letting them have their fun, I finally had to tap them on the shoulders and give the “WTF???” crotchety old coot look. This dampened their enthusiasm for a full half minute before they felt it was time to ignore me and blot out my view of the stage again. It is unlikely they are Dilbert readers, but I still think it is funny that they went to the show hoping to see unimportant celebrities while one was tapping them on the shoulder and wishing they were dead.

Still, I have to say it was worth it just to see (sort of) David Archuleta belt out a few tunes that blew the doors off the stadium and sent 8,000 young girls into premature ovulation. The winner of this year’s American Idol, David Cook, ended the show with a demonstration of natural superstar charisma that was a joy to experience.

But television is good too.