Later today we’re getting a puppy. I haven’t had one since I was a kid. Things have changed since then, according to the puppy experts. For one, we found the puppy over the Internet. That’s different. But it’s only the tip of the iceberg.



The experts say we are not supposed to pick up the puppy and hold it. If the puppy pushes itself out of our arms, it will try to brace its fall with its front legs, and they will break. Apparently this happens a lot.

Instead, we are advised to keep the puppy on a leash if we pick it up. That way, if the dog jumps out of our arms, we can save it by holding the leash, in much the same way the Iraqis saved Saddam Hussein when he fell through the trap door. Sounds safe to me.

We have been advised to get a special type of sugary foodlike product to give the puppy when it arrives on the plane, to prevent it from getting hypoglycemic. This has something to do with the stress of the trip and not eating for several hours. In the old days, when dogs got hungry they would eat something called dog food. But to be fair, our old family dog hardly ever used an airplane for interstate travel, at least not while we were watching.

Our first attempt at buying a little gated fence for the puppy was a failure. The puppy expert said it wasn’t high enough. If the dog successfully climbs the fence, it will learn it can climb anything. Before you know it, the dog is on the roof, all hypoglycemic, with the wind ripping off its feeble limbs.

House training has changed too. You no longer whack the puppy with a rolled up newspaper when it relieves itself in the house. Now you do something more humane, called cage training. You put the puppy in a cage so small it can barely turn around. Dogs instinctively won’t poop where they have to stand, so it learns to hold it until it poops on your terms.

I ask myself if I would prefer to be whacked with a rolled up newspaper when I pooped on the carpet or be forced to stay in a coffin-sized cage for several hours while desperately squeezing my butt cheeks together to keep the turtle in the shell. Which is more humane? I’m thinking it doesn’t make any difference because my parents used both of those methods on me, and I turned out okay.

The dog is an Aussie Toy. According to our research, this is the very best dog in the entire world for us. It is a “working dog,” meaning it was bred to be useful, presumably herding very small cows. I plan to train it to fetch tennis balls. I want it to kneel by the net like a ball girl and bring me the loose balls after each point. Maybe it could even keep score.  I haven’t consulted with the puppy expert about this idea because I know she will say the dog can’t participate in sports unless it is wearing a Kevlar body suit has an asthma inhaler nearby.

I’m just saying dogs are different now.