 



Yesterday I flew to LA, after just being there on the weekend and sighting a few minor celebrities. (See yesterday’s blog post.) This time I was traveling with my wife, and I was alert to spotting additional celebrities, or at least people who looked like celebrities.

After we got off the plane in LA, we ended up on the escalator behind a guy who seemed to be someone important. He wore clothes that you can’t get in Macy’s, and a haircut you can’t get at Supercuts. We guessed he was an ultimate fighter type, based on his build and the way a guy in a business suit was sucking up to him. I just found his picture on Google Images to confirm who he was. Apparently he’s one of the most famous ultimate fighters, Tito Ortiz.

http://slam.canoe.ca/Slam/Gallery/Fighting/2007/07/08/Ortiz3.jpg http://slam.canoe.ca/Slam/Gallery/Fighting/2007/07/08/Ortiz3.jpg





Later in the afternoon, back at the airport, we got in the Southwest Airlines ticket line to try and get an earlier flight. I noticed that the guy in front of us looked a little like actor Danny Glover, but older and scruffier. For fun, I decided to tell my wife it was indeed Danny Glover and let her enjoy the thrill-by-proximity until she realized I was full of shit. So I discretely tapped out the message on my Blackberry: “You are behind actor Danny Glover” and showed it to her. Shelly wasn’t going to fall for that, and dismissed it quickly. After all, the guy in front of us was schlepping his own bags, shabbily dressed, and standing in line at Southwest with the common people.  He clearly wasn’t movie star material.

But when we got a glimpse of his full profile, it sure looked like Danny Glover. I convinced myself it really was. Shelly noticed the initials on his luggage were DLG. As we walked from the ticket area to the gate, she suggested I use my Blackberry to figure out what Danny Glover’s middle name is, to confirm the initials. I argued that the odds of spotting a guy who looks like Danny Glover, in a city where Danny Glover works, boarding a flight to an area where Danny Glover lives (The Bay Area) with two-out-of-three confirmed initials for “Danny Glover” on his luggage was sufficient confirmation. Shelly wasn’t so sure.

Coincidentally, we ended up next to this potential Danny Glover fellow as we lined up in our designated waiting place at the gate. He was on his cell phone talking in a perfect Danny Glover voice to a business contact about his next movie that begins production in September. I asked Shelly if she still needed me to check his middle name, but she was now ready to accept this as a bona fide celebrity sighting.

The interesting part was watching the reaction from the other passengers and flight crew to this huge star: none. As far as we could tell, no one else in the terminal was aware of his existence. Or if they were, they weren’t letting on. Maybe that’s how they roll in LA, where there is a celebrity on every corner.

All I know is that when we returned to my celebrity-free suburban town, I felt a little empty knowing it could be weeks, even months, before I saw another famous person from a distance. I already miss my good friends Tito and Danny.