French researchers offer some insight into why you actually can walk and chew gum at the same time, but when add a third task, things go balls up.

http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/8622137.stm http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/8622137.stm

Upon seeing this report, I immediately thought of those of you who are single. You can add this concept to your seduction tool bag. For example, always phrase your romantic offers in the form of multiple choices instead of yes/no questions.

Don’t: “Would you like to go to dinner with me tonight?”

Do:  “Would you like to go to dinner with me, or to dinner and a movie, or maybe just a movie? What movies would you like to see anyway?”

I can’t vouch for the research, but I will say this is a standard technique that you might learn in either a sales or hypnosis training class. I think it passes the sniff test. For example, when Ralph Nader ran as a third party candidate in the U.S., it created a multiple choice situation in which the research suggests that a lot of people voted in a way that they knew would not serve their own best interests. Check!

This, by the way, is the reason I refer to music as brain pollution. I enjoy music, in its place, but it adds a task to your brain when you’re probably already juggling at least two others. Personally, I’ve noticed that I can’t do a complex task, particularly writing, while music is playing. But music is great if I’m just going for a run because the extra mental task puts me into irrational mode, and I really need that to silence the rational part of my brain that keeps whispering “Nothing is chasing you. Stop running.”

Remember to ask your boss today if he’d prefer to give you a raise, a raise plus a promotion, or a promotion with a raise at your next performance review. Let me know how that goes.

… … .

On a completely different topic, what home page do you use, and why? I’m curious if the readers of this blog gravitate toward the same few starting points. I’ll bet the answer is yes.