My new non-Dilbert book, How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big - Sort of the Story of My Life, is due out on October 22nd and I am happy to report that the reviewers are pleased with it. You’ll need to navigate to the 5th page on this Barron’s review http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424052748704719204579022894162566908.html#articleTabs_article=0to see one reviewer’s opinion.

Readers of this blog will not be surprised that the descriptions and reviews you see of this book won’t entirely capture its essence. That’s because I designed the book to work on three levels. The top level is a series of stories about some of my most embarrassing failures. You might enjoy reading about the face-plants I’ve taken along the road. You’ll also hear the strange story of how I lost my ability to speak for over three years to an allegedly incurable brain problem.

The next level describes the strategies I’ve used since college to capitalize on my failures, ramp up my personal energy, increase my market value, and create a situation in which luck could more easily find me. It’s not an advice book, but you might find it useful to learn about one person’s unusual strategy for success and how it all turned out. Generally speaking, before you try anything risky, it’s a good idea to ask others how they approached the same situation. I hope my experience is helpful in that sense.

The third level in this book is emotional. I designed the book to raise the energy level of the reader without the reader knowing that’s the plan. If I succeeded, which is an admittedly rare situation, readers will simply feel good while reading it. And that energy can be useful for whatever you hope to achieve in life.

I can’t predict how the market will receive this book, but I’m fairly sure it’s my best work, and that’s enough for me at this point in my life. I feel as if I didn’t have the skills until recently to write this tale the way it needed to be written. I’d like to thank each of you regular blog readers for helping me hone those skills. I test a lot of things out on you folks and your reactions are my classroom. I take a hybrid business/science approach to writing in which I test a hypothesis, observe reader reactions, and try to learn something. You’ll recognize some of my thought patterns in the book, but it’s 98% new material.

The How to Fail… book is the sum of what I’ve learned over a lifetime filtered the way you taught me to write. If you’re curious, you can preorder http://www.amazon.com/How-Fail-Almost-Everything-Still/dp/1591846919the book now, and it will make me happy if you do.

 

 

