Some research-dudes in Denmark have expressed doubts http://www.businessinsider.com/new-research-casts-doubt-on-discovery-of-the-god-particle-2014-11 about whether the so-called “God particle” (Higgs Boson) has really been discovered. The doubters say the experiments that allegedly found the God particle are not precise enough to know for sure.

Although the “God particle” is just a clever name, and has nothing to do with anyone’s actual God, I have recently learned that the real, actual, literal God was discovered some time ago. The discovery doesn’t get much mention in the article so you have to read between the lines.



To understand why I say the real God has been discovered, first you must know that something called techni-quarks are thought to be the fundamental bits of the universe. Humans, for example, are comprised of lots of different particles, but a techni-quark is just made of more techni-quark stuff. It has no parts that are different from the whole except in quantity.

Here’s the quote from the article about techni-quarks that tells you God has already been discovered: “If techni-quarks exist, there must be a force to bind them together so that they can form particles,” Frandsen said. “None of the four known forces of nature are any good at binding techni-quarks together. There must therefore be a yet undiscovered force of nature.”

In my 2001 fiction book, God’s Debris http://amzn.to/1eogSpL, I talk about a hypothetical fundamental particle and how someday we will understand that at the bottom of reality is nothing but one material (perhaps techni-quarks) plus the laws of probability. If that accurately describes reality, and I think it someday will, then here’s the interesting part:

For all practical purposes, probability and God are the same thing. Both are cause-free forces that define the universe without over-specifying the details. Probability is the root cause behind motion, evolution, and eventually the writing of holy books.

In God’s Debris I hypothesize in fiction form that probability is the only force that can never be understood or explained by science. And probability is the engine that drives every particle in the universe. Interestingly, probability looks just like intelligence if you back up far enough. Probability gave us natural selection and in effect “designed” every living creature through its rules. That’s the same way humans create things: We try something and see how it works. If it doesn’t work we discard it and try something new. That’s evolution in a nutshell. And if it doesn’t look like intelligence to you, I would say you have an overly romantic notion of what human minds are capable of. To me, human minds are just moist computers operating according to the laws of probability. Free will and intelligence are just illusion. You might argue that evolution is not an “intelligent” process, but I would argue that neither is anything else you do. Everything in the universe including our thoughts is nothing but techni-quarks bouncing around according to the laws of probability. Intelligence is an illusion, so we should not expect God to possess any of this illusion.

When I wrote God’s Debris I imagined that science would someday discover that at the bottom of all reality is one fundamental piece of matter that conforms to the laws of probability to create every other piece of matter in the universe. That would be science’s dead-end. Probability will never be understood. It is causeless and infinite. And because it is so consistent across time and space, one could say that fundamental force is the author of all we see.

I don’t believe in a supreme being with a human-like personality because humans are, for the most part, fucked-up basket-cases, and it wouldn’t make sense for an omnipotent being to have any of our flaws. But I do think science will someday hit a dead end and find that something - perhaps probability - just “is” and cannot be explained or changed. If you don’t want to call that “God,” I understand, but I also think we would be discussing semantics at that point, not concepts.

I’m overstating my case here, for fun. But I do think that someday science will hit a brick wall and realize that reality is nothing but one particle and a handful of simple rules of probability that cannot be further understood. If that isn’t God, what is?

———————————————————————-
Scott Adams
Co-founder of CalendarTree.com http://bit.ly/N8iAnK    
Author of this book http://amzn.to/1dF0EJK  and also this one http://amzn.to/1eogSpL and this one http://www.amazon.com/Go-Add-Value-Someplace-Else/dp/1449446604#customerReviews
Twitter Dilbert: @Dilbert_Daily
Twitter for Scott: @ScottAdamsSays