On this fine autumn day in the United States, millions of Americans are heading to the polls for mid-term election voting. I would like to take a moment to acknowledge the good work that our elected representatives have done recently. Here’s a complete list of their excellent accomplishments:

-

-

-
 
Okay, we’re done with that part.

So, today I learn that there is very little pending legislation http://www.deathwithdignity.org/advocates/national on the issue of doctor-assisted suicide.

What?

Let me paint a picture.

Millions of people in this country, mostly seniors, will be tortured until their deaths by a government bureaucracy that refuses to allow individuals, families, and their doctors to make end-of-life treatment decisions.

The government recently tortured both of my parents to death that way.

They probably got one of your relatives too.

You might be next. Or maybe your spouse is next. Medical science has gotten good at keeping old people alive until they wish they were not.

Meanwhile, nearly 100% of the public opposes having the government make the end-of-life care decision over their own wishes. The only way you get a different poll response is by asking the question like an idiot: “Duh! Hey, dude, do you think the government should be able to kill sick people?” Likely answer: “NO!!!!! I HAVE A COLD BUT I WANT TO LIVE!!!!”

In the two states in which doctor-assisted suicide is already legal, it is working as planned and without problems or reported abuses worthy of note. (No system is perfect though.)

In the “smart” world, after you test something and it works great, you do more of it.

We live in a Republic, not a democracy, so politicians have a legal right to ignore the will of the people.

The alleged opposition to doctor-assisted suicide is mostly a handful of nutbags that have cleverly leveraged the poorly-worded polls on the topic to pretend half of the country is on their side. The media totally buys into this story. The reality has been reported in this blog alone, as far as I can tell. And the reality is that there is no serious opposition in this country to doctor-assisted suicide if you ask the question right.

So, while your elected officials were voting on the state bird, or trying to totally fuck up something that is working fine, millions of innocent seniors are being tortured to death.

Those are the facts.

I am tempted to assign a failing grade to our elected officials for having such a bad grasp on priorities. But somehow that doesn’t seem enough in this situation. You’ll probably agree with me after your parents are tortured to death by the government, or it happens to you, or someone you know.

So let me say this in a stronger fashion, and I direct this to our elected state officials on this special day.

GET YOUR HEADS OUT OF YOUR ASSES AND FIX THIS SITUATION, YOU STUPID FUCKING ASSHOLES! I WANT EVERY ONE OF YOU LAZY FUCKERS TO DIE A PAINFUL DEATH!

This is the part where people say, “He doesn’t mean that. He just wants clicks.”

No, I mean it. Seriously, you guys are fucking millions of senior citizens right into their graves and you know it. You are lower than terrorists in my view because terrorists are at least operating out of principle. And I want those guys dead too.

Emotions are important in this issue. This isn’t about economics or building roads. This is about human beings that are tortured to death in front of their families. And the families’ lives are often ruined at the same time. So if you are an elected official, you need to know the emotional state of your constituents. I am a constituent. You just heard my emotional state. If it wasn’t clear, I can repeat it.

DIE PAINFULLY, YOU FUCKING USELESS LOSERS!

Technically, that is only Plan B. Plan A is still “Dear Elected Representatives: Please do the job we pay you to do. Thank you.”

I’m not advocating violence against anyone. I’m just saying how I feel. My goal is to end government violence (essentially) against senior citizens.

——

Scott Adams
Personal Twitter Account: @ScottAdamsSays