I’m doubling down on my prediction that Edward Snowden will someday return to the United States, run for president on a third-party platform, and win in a landslide.


This assumes two things, both of which seem likely to me:


1. Snowden someday gets a presidential pardon or he decides to come back and endure a public trial that he wins because 12 jurors of his peers won’t convict the guy who went after the government on their behalf.


2. The government of the U.S. continues its downward spiral of credibility.


I wasn’t sure Snowden was smart enough to pull off a presidential win until I read his response to the criticism of his recent appearance on Russian TV in which he asked Putin a question about Russian surveillance. Some pundits thought he was being a puppet for Putin, and I’d have to assume Putin was hoping he would be just that.


Today Snowden slipped a shiv into Putin with this open letter http://www.businessinsider.com/snowden-i-questioned-putin-to-get-his-answer-on-record-2014-4. You think Snowden is sitting on a bean bag chair, but no, those are his gonads.


What really caught my attention was his writing style. If your eyes are the mirror of your soul, I think your writing style is the mirror of your mind. Maybe it’s the writer-nerd in me, but I feel I can tell a lot by how people form thoughts on paper. It’s quite possible that someone helped him with the writing, or at least the editing, but it reads like the work of a single author. So I’m going to say he wrote it and perhaps someone gave it an edit polish. And if he wrote it, he’s the real deal.


I assume if he comes back to the U.S. he will be the victim of some interesting smear compaigns. But I think he’ll survive them. Depending on the sources of the smears, it could make him stronger.


Does anyone agree with my prediction? (I’d be surprised if you do.)


——————————



Scott Adams

 Co-founder of CalendarTree.com http://bit.ly/N8iAnK

Author of the best graduation gift http://amzn.to/1dF0EJK ever.

 

























