The other day I asked aloud in this blog if there might be some sort of anti-success trend emerging in society. I think I found it.

Some folks emailed me directly (dilbertcartoonist@gmail.com dilbertcartoonist@gmail.com) to say they believe it is a waste of time to pursue success because it is a zero-sum game. In other words, they believe they can only be successful by making someone else less successful, on the theory that there isn’t enough success in the universe for everyone to get a meaningful slice. They tell me it would be “wrong” on some level to pick the pockets of strangers for self-enrichment.

And there it is.

I doubt that sort of thinking would have existed before the massive media campaign against the “top 1%.” The power of the top 1% story is in the false impression that rich people stole the money from the poor and middle class, and therefore it would only be fair to give most of it back.

Clearly some of the financial titans are doing little more than picking pockets. But those are the exceptions. Most one-percenters are growing the economy and creating jobs. That’s obvious to people who were born in the “rising tide lifts all boats” era. And it’s obvious to anyone with a bit of economics education.

But if you are in your twenties, with no deep understanding of economics, wouldn’t you believe success is evil? That’s the dominant story of their generation.

Making matters worse, success, money, and abuse of power are all conflated in our minds because that’s how the news lumps that stuff.

So while the benefits of success are entrenched in the minds of my generation, the young might be learning that it’s something to be avoided.

I can’t back this hypothesis with data. We’re in anecdotal territory. But it’s something to keep an eye on.

Update 1:

Another reason success might have lost its luster is that successful people are considered narcissists http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/narcissism, and narcissism seems to be more condemned lately than at any time I can recall. (Or maybe that’s just me.) But it turns out that, according to one study http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/01/140115132744.htm, a little bit of narcissism actually helps people succeed as leaders. That’s a problem because what 20-something wants to be seen as a narcissist? Narcissism is the new racism.

Update 2:

Here’s more evidence that success is being demonized by the young. The University of Georgia’s Student Government Association is demanding fewer success stories http://www.ijreview.com/2013/10/90213-success-students-protest-excellence-social-justice-week/ because it makes those who are less successful look bad.





