Today we start the Rationality Engine http://blog.dilbert.com/post/115299602036/rationality-engine-for-assisted-dying-prep-phase (invented in this blog) to see if the process can settle for us the question of whether the United States is a patriarchy or a matriarchy. 

Here we stipulate that the country has been a patriarchy from its founding until modern times. The claim we are testing is that the country has recently transformed from a patriarchy to a matriarchy.

Definitions:

Patriarchy: Men have the most power in society

Matriarchy: Women have the most power in society

We all agree that women had a bad deal throughout history. We also agree that modern men do not experience anything similar to the types of problems women have experienced through history. It’s not a competition about history. And if it were, men would lose. Let’s agree on that.

We also stipulate the obvious, that no two situations are alike. Your situation will not resemble the average. Nor will mine. So while anecdotes are useful for explaining ideas, they are not reasons, and they are not data. If I say the sky is blue, assume everyone understands there might be at least one cloud up there. It’s still basically blue-looking

Explanation of Bias

For those of you new to the Rationality Engine, phase one involves your host (me) confessing his biases so you can keep me honest. So here goes.

1. My views on gender match those of the most well-informed feminists http://blog.dilbert.com/post/114055529676/my-verdict-on-gender-bias-in-the-workplace. I’m a strong supporter of equal treatment. Society works best that way.

2. My career in banking ended when my boss told me the company asked her to stop promoting white men because there were already too many in upper management. (She told me this in direct language.)

3. My career at Pacific Bell ended when my boss told me the company asked him to stop promoting white men because there were already too many in upper management. (Again, he said this in direct language.)

Some folks are confused because in my books I confessed to being incompetent at my corporate jobs. That’s true. But I also had top performance reviews and oversized raises throughout that era because my bosses couldn’t tell the difference. To them, I was a rising star.

4. When my corporate careers stalled, I turned to cartooning and things worked out. Folks assume I am bitter because gender discrimination ended my corporate careers. I probably would be bitter if I were not typing this next to the fireplace in my mansion. Getting rich takes the sting out of a lot of things. 

5. I was once married, and delighted that I had the experience. My ex moved one block away (to stay near) and we are best friends. I love her more than ever. I’m healthy, single, rich and totally free to do what I want, whenever I want. My personal life is extraordinary. I mention this because there is speculation that I am a bitter Golem lashing out at a cruel world that won’t give me sex. The reality is that I live in California, and I don’t know any healthy single people here who can’t find plenty of sex. 

You should assume I have bias on this topic, as nearly anyone would. The test of the Rationality Engine is whether your scrutiny will suppress my bias. When you see it creeping in, call me out in the comments and I will try to correct.

Claims Phase

In this phase I present a series of claims and present my preliminary verdict on their validity. These are claims of fact, not a final verdict. Once you see my preliminary verdicts on the claims, you can critique them in the comments and I will adjust as needed. This is a living debate that is intended to improve over time. 

To keep things simple, I will focus on one area today: Political power

Claim: Women have the most political power in the United States because more women than men vote.

Preliminary Verdict: True. 

In the 2008 presidential election, according to CNN http://www.cnn.com/2012/10/25/politics/btn-women-voters/, 70 million women voted compared to only 61 million men. That’s enough of a difference to say women could control decisions in the United States if they collectively decided to do so, according to the rules of our Constitution.

In upcoming posts I will discuss gender differences in economics, job opportunities, family dynamics, and other power-related topics. But for today let’s focus on political power. Do you agree that women have enough of a majority to control political outcomes?

Remember, the past doesn’t count. Everyone agrees that the past was a patriarchy. We’re focusing on today.

Let me know what you think in the comments.

—

If you think my blog is terrible, you should see my book http://www.amazon.com/Scott-Adams/e/B004N47QVK/ref=dp_byline_cont_book_1.

—

If you have been following my Trump Persuasion Series http://blog.dilbert.com/post/128474925371/how-to-spot-a-wizard, you will recognize what I did in this tweet and why. 

[https://64.media.tumblr.com/27436fb5ed35229700e44a28b78eeef7/tumblr_inline_nybq61tqSR1t63ajm_540.png]