If you have been following my posts on Master Wizards that use hypnosis and persuasion tricks to control the entire world, you might have seen some tells in the Iran nuke deal. 


DISCLAIMER: THIS IS FOR ENTERTAINMENT ONLY. THERE IS NO SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THE MASTER WIZARD HYPOTHESIS. THE FUN IS COMPARING THIS FILTER TO YOUR CURRENT ONE TO SEE WHICH EXPLAINS THE DATA BETTER.

When most of the public heard about the Iran nuke deal, they saw a mortal enemy getting a free pass to build a nuclear weapon, albeit perhaps at a slower pace. That seems like a bad deal if you imagine there was some practical way to stop all of the Iranian nuclear advancements.

The government must be crazy!

But if you view the deal through the filter of the Master Wizard hypothesis, you see something entirely different.

What I see is one of the best wizards of all time (President Obama) convincing an enemy (Iran) that they are actually an ally. In other words, he did not change their minds about the world; rather he changed their minds about who they are. That’s what wizards do. 

The method (wizard-wise) is ridiculously easy. All you do is seed the situation by treating them like an ally, behind the scenes, without asking much in return. Humans are wired to see helpful people as allies. There isn’t much else to it.

This differs from appeasement. With appeasement, you make the mistake of hoping a genocidal killer has somehow changed his mind on his own for no particular reason. That’s a bad bet.  

With the wizard model, the wizard changes the dictator’s self-image. Once you change a person’s self-image, that person will act in a way that is consistent with the new self-image. According to the Master Wizard hypothesis, Obama could make that happen by engineering a linguistic virus and infecting just one or two top Iranian leaders. They would in turn infect the rest.

As an example, here’s a linguistic virus that would do it: “The past is done. Today we have more common interests than we have reasons to disagree. We ask that you treat us as friends.”

There’s a lot of engineering in those three sentences. By now my regular readers should be able to see the scaffolding.

If you are surprised that Colin Powell came out in support of the Iran nuke deal, don’t be. He sees behind the curtain.







Scott