I’m getting reports that people have successfully used my blog post that is designed to dehypnotize Clinton supporters http://blog.dilbert.com/post/152734465316/unhypnotizing-a-clinton-supporter. If you want to try it yourself, here are some tips for maximizing the effect.

I engineered the dehypnosis blog post to convert about 20% of Clinton voters who are exposed to it. To maximize the effect, try to identify people who are most easily persuaded. Look for Clinton supporters with these characteristics:

1. Open-minded in general.

2. Under-informed about the election.

3. Plans to vote for Clinton because Trump is “unfit to be around the nuclear codes” or similar reasoning.

My blog post won’t dehypnotize hardcore Democrats who consider their political affiliation part of their identity. But you might want to try it with that group anyway just to watch the cognitive dissonance that arises. Trust me when I say it will be hilarious. You will get to watch a total abandonment of any pretense of rational thought along with – I assume – a frantic attempt to change the topic. 

Once you have identified your subject for persuasion, prime that person by saying you read the Scott Adams Blog and you have learned a lot about the field of persuasion. Mention that I am a trained hypnotist and that I have made spooky-accurate predictions so far this election. Tell the person that I wrote a blog post designed to dehypnotize a Clinton voter who thinks Trump is a dangerous candidate. Say you know it works for some people because I reported that here and on Twitter. (That’s true.)

This type of priming is important for persuasion. You want your subject to accept the idea that I have special skills in the field of hypnosis. Once they believe that is true, your persuasion will be more effective. Don’t skip the priming because it makes a big difference.

Suggest to your subject that it would be fun to test my hypnosis. Offer to read my blog post out loud to them and see if it works. Call up the post on your phone and ask your subject to sit comfortably and give you their full attention. They do not need to close their eyes. They only need to listen and give you full attention. Do this where you will not be interrupted. 

Read the blog post slowly enough for your subject to follow along. Pause for effect when you feel it makes sense. The pauses, and your choice of what words and thoughts to emphasize, is what keeps your listener focused. If you read it all the same, the listener gets bored and the mind wanders. Try to keep it interesting if you can. Feel free to pause and paraphrase any of it. 

Don’t be too aggressive in trying to flip your subject to Trump. People will reflexively resist what they feel pushed. The ideal framing is that both of you are trying a fun experiment. You are not trying to change a mind so much as you are curious whether the method works. That gives your subject the freedom to change without feeling you “won” in some way and they “lost.”

I’ll retweet your success stories @ScottAdamsSays https://twitter.com/ScottAdamsSays. That will serve to make the post viral as well as making the dehypnosis more credible and therefore more persuasive.  

Here’s the link http://blog.dilbert.com/post/152734465316/unhypnotizing-a-clinton-supporter again to the dehypnosis post.

—

On a related topic, many people have asked me if I am accurately predicting a lot of things that happen in this campaign or actually causing them to happen with my own persuasion. The interesting answer is that there’s no way to know. 

I can tell you that I write to persuade. I can tell you I’m good at it. I can tell you my persuasion is engineered to work. I can tell you that the mainstream media and both campaigns read this blog. And I can tell you that I’m fairly certain I’ve influenced national topics in the past. But I don’t know what things would have happened by chance, or because other people think the way I do. 

That said, if you successfully dehypnotize a few Clinton supporters with my blog post you will get an idea for the power of persuasion, and it will blow your mind. Then decide for yourself how much influence I have had on the election. I’m interested in your opinion on that.

—

You might love reading my book http://amzn.to/1oTGu8x because the writing is persuasive.