In the United Kingdom, opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn – evidently a Master Persuader himself – made this clever offer to Donald Trump.

> “I decided to invite Donald Trump on his visit to Britain to come with me to my constituency because he has problems with Mexicans and he has problems with Muslims," 
> 
> "As you know my wife is Mexican and my constituency is very, very multi-cultural so what I was going to do was go down to the mosque with him and let him talk to people there." 

You can see more context here http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-trump-britain-idUSKCN0UV0IU. 

I call Corbyn a Master Persuader because he cleverly conflated Trump’s border security ideas into the word “problems” so it sounded all racist. Nicely done.

Corbin also took the high ground of social justice and political correctness. And like Trump often does, he created media bait. The press has to ask Trump about it because the topic is so gossipy and delicious for viewers. This serves Corbyn’s interests by distracting from any real problems he might have and placing him squarely on the offensive against a formidable political opponent.

Win, win, win. This guy is good. That is some A+ persuasion.

So what could Trump do to respond?

Obviously Trump would prefer to ignore it. But as a mental exercise, let’s say the press decides to ask Trump about it. See if you can think of a brief response, using the rules of persuasion that you have learned in this blog. When you have your answer in mind, scroll to the bottom for my answer.







scroll down

























My answer:

Trump: “I’ll visit after I’m president, so we can see how he’s doing. That’s actually a great idea.”

Why: Takes the high ground away. Makes you think past the sale. Clever enough to be the soundbite of the day. Forces press to dig into the immigrant crime problem in Corbyn’s area. Puts Trump back on offensive. Frames Trump as the judge and not the defendant.

I have no idea what the immigrant crime rate is in Corbyn’s part of the world, but you can depend on the media to make it look bad. And that serves Trump’s interest by redirecting energy where he is strongest.

Corbyn is good, but he left the front door unlocked. If you didn’t notice, you might not be a Master Persuader yet :-)
