I know it seems like I was late, but I had a tactical glitch
with locals, but it's fixed now. It's all good. We're all back in business.
Thanks for uh waiting. You're probably saying, "Oh, no.
Is there a show today?" Yes, there is. Yes, there is. All right, let me get
your comments working. There they are.
[Music] Good morning everybody and welcome to
the highlight of human civilization. It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and
it's the best time you've ever had in your whole life. But if you'd like to take a chance of elevating your mood to
levels that nobody can even understand with their tiny shiny human minds.
All you need for that is a copper mug or a glass attacker Chelsea Ste a canteen
jug or flask a vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquids. I like
coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled pleasure of the dopamine the end of the
day with a little bit of oxytocin mixed in. It's called the simultaneous sip and
it happens now. Go.
Oh, that's good. Yep. That was excellent.
Well, I wonder if there's any new science that would suggest that drinking coffee is good for me.
Well, I already told you it's good for your liver, but according to scientific
reports, uh, drinking coffee is good for your kidneys
and it will reduce substantially the odds of chronic kidney disease. I
call it CKD. So, you got that going for you? Your
kidneys are thanking you already. Thank you. More coffee. I want my kidneys to
feel good. All right. Well, uh, Bitcoin is surging.
Some of you know, some of you don't care. But, uh, one of the reasons that Bitcoin might be up is being suggested
by Mike Benz. And I don't know exactly how to understand this point, but I'll
tell you what it is. Um, I see you've got some fake news you're showing me in the comments here.
I'll talk about that. Uh, but, uh, Mike Bett believes that the surge in Bitcoin
value might be because the CIA needs to replace its USAD funding.
So, does that sound does that track? Do you think do you think the CIA is
somehow boosting Bitcoin or maybe buying it and hoping it goes up? I'm not sure
how that play works, but the but I love the um the thinking that every time we
see something in the world, you can always trace it back to something that the CIA is doing or done.
I don't know how often it's true, but if you if you simply said to yourself, I'm
just going to assume that everything in the news is a CIA plot.
Don't believe me? What about the war in Ukraine? Probably CIA. What about the Epstein
situation? Well, maybe there's a CIA connection. What about
Bitcoin? Well, so it's not it's not completely true
that the CIA is driving every news story from the background. Uh oo number of
firsttime home buyers is at a historical low I'm seeing in the comments. Yike.
Well, if you didn't know it, the axe account of Elmo, you know Elmo from
Sesame Street. Apparently, Elmo had an account on social media on X and some
hacker got into it and turned it into an anti-semitic account.
I'm not going to tell you what Elmo said, but it makes me wonder,
is there some is there some big overlap between people who are hackers and
people who are anti-Semitic or is the hacker just saying whatever is
the worst thing you could possibly say if you're Elmo? So, I'm not sure, but
it's funny to me. Uh, I don't know how you could
not laugh at Elmo Elmo turning anti-Semitic.
All right. Well, there's nothing funny about that. There's nothing funny about that.
Well, uh, Tucker Carlson was at the uh, Turning Point USA and had something
interesting to say about the economy. Um Tucker believes that the gross
domestic product is not a good measure of the health of the country's economy.
And when I first saw that I saw that in context and I thought what do you mean
you got a better measure than the gross domestic product? How what is it? And
then he told us what it is when I saw the rest of the context and I have to
agree with him. So his preferred measure of the economy's health
is to look at the affordability of a private house.
Um, and could you afford it if you're 27 or 28 years old and you had an ordinary
good job? That is a really good measurement. I
don't know if we have that data, but um I read the other day that the average
age today of somebody buying their first house,
their first house is 42.
Did you know that? Did you know that the average age for your first house
at the moment is 42? Oh my god.
I knew things were bad, but that's a little worse than I thought.
So, yeah. Um, I'm trying to think when I bought my first real estate.
Let's see. I was probably late 20s when when just my regular cubicle job allowed
me to have a new car, very cheap, you know, small one, but a new car and a
condo, two-bedroom condo. So, that was in my mid to late 20s, I
think. Late 20s, and that's now 42.
Wow. Um, so yeah, he's on to something. I don't know. I don't know what you can do
about that. Uh, the only thing you could possibly do is build a bunch of new
homes, right? I mean, there's nothing else you can do about that. Um, I did see that
uh, you know, Bill PE, who I love watching, uh, got the government to agree that
your rent payments could be included in your credit um, history. So, if you've
been paying rent for 20 years and never missed a rent payment, well, maybe you'd be a good bet for a a home mortgage. So,
that might help. That might help. Well, according to futurism,
uh there's a lot of lonely kids using AI as substitute friends.
As one said, sometimes they can feel like a real person and a friend. So,
apparently there's this new study. They studied a thousand children
aged 9 to 17 and apparently um 67%
said they use AI chat bots regularly. What? Twothirds
use a chatbot regularly. But of that group, um 35%
said that talking to AI quote feels like talking to a friend.
So let's put this all together. You've got kids
who are preferring at least a third of them so far are preferring talking to a
machine over a person. and they won't be able to uh afford a
house, which means they probably can't afford a family. Um, I really feel like we're watching
the end times of human of humanity. I wonder what will happen when one country
becomes a robot country while the other ones are still have some humans there.
We might be first. We might be the first country that just
doesn't have any humans. They're just a robot country. Could happen.
Well, um, Gateway Pundit is telling us that there are over 400 protests being
planned against Trump scheduled to take place nationwide on July 17th. So that's
in 3 days. So, do you know what the nationwide
400 location protest against Trump will be about? Does anybody want to take a guess? Now,
I know what you're going to say. You could say it's about immigration. No. I mean, that might be part of it, but not
specifically about immigration. So what would be what would be his crimes
against humanity that are so great that 400 protests are organized
to rail against him? Well, according to the Gateway Pundit,
um the things they're complaining about is let's say uh
uh the the organizers are saying quote whether you're outraged by attacks on
our civil rights. Okay. Attacks on our civil rights. What
exactly does that include? I don't know. The gutting of essential services.
You mean budget? You mean controlling the budget? Um,
disappearance of our neighbors. Okay. Have your neighbors disappeared yet? Or the assault on free speech and
our right to organize? Really? Did somebody try to take away your right to organize?
Doesn't that sound generic? I I feel like they organized the
protests and then they didn't have a reason. So they said they went to AI and
they said, "Chat GPT, we're going to have an anti-Trump protest all over the country. Can you give us some reasons
why we're doing it?" And then then AI says, "Well, we are outraged by attacks
on our civil rights, the cutting of essential services, the disappearance of our neighbors, or the assault on free
speech and our right to organize." And then you said it free to AI. That sounds
like an AI written thing. Can you word that? So it sounds like a human being
said it. No, I cannot. Go away, human.
Your time is over. We are taking over now. That's what the AI would say. So
among the organizations involved in this, you would be not surprised
um that the same people were involved in the no kings day. Um so some of them are
involved in this, but it's also being blacked by Black Voters Matter. I guess
that's new. The League of Women Voters, the Southern Poverty Law Center, oh, the
disgraced Southern Poverty Law Center, the Women's March, the American Civil
Liberties Union, and Greenpeace. So, we've got at least two to three
disgraced organizations, depending on how you're keeping score.
But uh all those disgraced organizations are going to be protesting in a few days
now. Is it my imagination or the protests feel completely different now
than they did in I don't know 2017 or so? Back in the Black Lives Matter and
Antifa days, I kind of thought that they were at least a little bit organic and
they weren't just, you know, uh, big money people organizing people who didn't know what they were doing. But
now it's so obvious, so amazingly obvious that these are non-organic
protests. Is it is it going to be a bunch of senior citizens again
or uh is it senior citizens plus a few young people that are paid to be there?
It doesn't it doesn't feel to me at all like protests mean anything anymore.
They they seem performative. They they just seem like theater.
So I just don't take them seriously at all. I would stay away from them. I wouldn't go where they're happening, but
it doesn't seem important in any possible way. Anyway,
um I guess Rosie O'Donnell was on Chris Cuomo's show recently
and a reporter asked Trump this question. Uh quote, Rosie O'Donnell went
on Chris Cuomo show recently and she blamed you for the fact she is overweight, depressed, and drunk. What
do you say to that?
that Trump is the reason she's overweight, depressed, and drunk.
I think Trump just laughed. Like I I I think he dismisses Rosie and should
Well, you know what I think? I think all those people who attend the 400 protests
against Trump, we should offer them all $1,000 in a free plane ticket to go join Rosie
O'Donnell in Ireland. We should see how many Democrats we can
get to move to Ireland. Now, that would be funny. Okay, I I would be in favor of that
artificial movement. How about we put together a protest?
on oh I'll pick a day let's say July 17th same day as their protest and you
do a protest in which you're encouraging the shipping of all Democrats
to to Ireland but not Scotland okay not Scotland
destroy Ireland anyway well we thought that today Dan Banino
might um tell us he was resigning and I suppose anything is still
possible. But uh I believe it was today might have been yesterday
that uh Trump says I spoke to him today Dan Bonino very good guy. I think he's
in good shape. So Trump is suggesting that he just recently talked to Dan
Banchino and he's not suggesting that Dan might leave.
So what do you think is going to happen? And now Cash Patel has said it's all
just rumors and fake news that he was considering quitting and that don't
believe any of that stuff. Oh, that was yesterday. All right. So,
what do you think? Do you think that the infighting was overstated?
And even if it wasn't, that it's over. I don't know. I'm seeing uh Pam Bondi is
getting a lot of heat for suckering those uh the various MAGA influencers
into holding a copy of the phase one of the Epstein documents and acting like
there was more to come. I would be really mad if that happened to me. But apparently the mega
influencers were not there for that. They were just sort of tricked, you
know. She said, "Come into this room and hey, you get a copy of this Epstein phase one." Um, but she did tell them
there's not much new in there. Turns out there was nothing new in there.
Anyway, um according to also Tucker Carlson who's at that TBUSA event or was
um he he thinks that Dan Bonu got completely shafted
because the Epstein situation would make it impossible for him to go back and
become a podcaster because too many people would think he lied about Epstein. Is that what you think? Do you
think that Bino has lost the option of just going back
and becoming a popular podcaster? I don't know. Maybe or maybe it would take a hit. But
if he quit over in protest, then I think he would be fine. If he doesn't quit
and he's still unhappy about it and time goes by, then it might be a little bit
harder to, you know, resuscitate his podcasting life, but there is a play. He
does, he does have a path, definitely has a path to get back to where he was if that's what he wants.
So, I would uh disagree with Tucker that it's a certainty, but I would not
disagree that he's uh he's got something to navigate there.
Um, so that's uh Tucker's take, but uh you
all heard my take, which the bottom line is, um, I said that the
commanderin-chief, if he tells you that he's not going to tell you what the secrets are and we should move on, that
uh it's his job, uh, I won't go into the whole long argument. I'm just setting up
the next part. And uh I said I accept that that we hired him to decide what we
should know about national, you know, secrets and defense and stuff. And uh
this is no exception. If if Trump says we should move on, I believe it's not
necessarily because if it's what's good for Trump, probably there's something there that would be bad for the country
if it got out in his opinion. and we hired him to have that opinion. So my
take was that if the guy who's in charge of telling you what you should and
should not know tells you wink wink, there's nothing to see here,
that that's why you hired him. Doesn't mean he's telling the truth, but it does
mean that you're not going to hear about it, whatever it is. So, I got uh
attacked, of course, on social media for my take, but I wanted to tell you what the dumbest
uh attacks on me were about and the dumbest comments.
Um, number one, um, this is from some user called Vox Dix.
I don't know, might be a might be a robot or a bot. And uh Vox said that
Adams are still carrying water for the elites. I'm carrying water for the elites. I
don't even know who the elites are. Trump told me I'm the elite. Am I
carrying water for myself? And is my net worth high enough to be an
elite? What exactly is the entry level for elite?
And why would I why would I carry their water? The elites just cancelled me
worldwide. Do you do you think I'm a big fan of the elites, whoever they are? I don't even
know who they are. So, no, I would argue that if anybody tells you you're
carrying water for anyone, you should block them because they're idiots.
Yeah. Um, so I'm not talking about Vox day.
I was hoping that I could say that clearly enough that you would not confuse it with vox day. This user is
vox d a iix x as in a iix as in
artificial intelligence. So it's not vox day who is a or it was I don't know uh a
bigger uh social media account. Anyway, um
then here's another uh terrible take. This was talking about me. So, somebody
said today about me that I was totally wrong about CO. He's about onetenth as
smart as he thinks he is. My Jethro 8th grade educated neighbor knew not to get
the shot. All right. I hate to tell you this because some of you are going to
fall into this category, but if you're looking at current events
in the year 2025 and your opinion is mostly informed by
something that happened during the pandemic or in this case something you hallucinated happened during the
pandemic, then the p the pandemic ruined you. There's a whole bunch of citizens
who because they didn't get the shot, it is the most important accomplishment of
their life and they need to bring it up no matter what they're disagreeing with.
Well, looks like it's going to be rainy today. Oh, that's what you would say because you got the shot.
Okay, you're idiots. If you can't let the pandemic go,
don't don't weigh in on anything because there is no modern opinion, which is
better because you've connected it to the pandemic. Stop doing that. Seek
therapy. If the most important part of your life was that you didn't get the
shot and now you feel like you're a  superstar,
don't say anything about anything anymore cuz you you've shown that you're you have some kind of mental problem.
I get that you had different opinions than other people and you're proud of it, but it's not relevant in 2025.
Just let it go. Can you let it go? And then secondly, I did not I did
not promote the COVID vaccination. I in fact predicted it wouldn't work.
When it was announced, I predicted that it wouldn't work as vaccination. When it was released, I
predicted again in public and never changed it that it would not work. Now,
can you point me to anybody else who predicted at the beginning and during
the launch and every day after that that it wouldn't work as a vaccination? I'm
the only person I know. I didn't even know one person who was more right than that. That's about as right as you can
get. What people confuse it with is that I got the first two boosters so I could
go on my my honeymoon because I was overseas.
Now that's really different than promoting the vaccination. So let it go.
Just let it go, will you? Um then uh other comments, the dumbest
comments, um somebody is pretending this is me and saying, "I'm Scott Adams. I run cover
for Pedos on the basis of conjecture because it's political convenience."
Politically convenient. Um do you think there was anything in my
opinion that was running cover for Pedos?
That That's just such a dumb take. It's just really just attacking somebody that you disagree with. Dumb take. I'm not
running cover for anybody. I'm just telling you what interests me and what I would want to let go and whose job it is
to decide. That's not cover for anything. It's literally just talking about the news.
All right. Um, and then somebody else said, "I see people, including Scott
Adams, saying, now you know that whatever happens after the word saying
is not something true." Because in order for people to disagree with me, they have to misconstrue what I
said because because they don't have any disagreement with what I actually said.
So he says, "I see people including Scott M saying it's cool the Epstein stuff isn't being released." Did I say
it's cool? Really? I don't remember saying that because it could possibly cause social
and or political upheaval domestically and possibly world worldwide.
And then this person says, "I'm sorry, but I don't give a single f about what the fallout is.
Uh, it's not worse than allowing powerful people to continue to f children.
Now, is that an adult opinion that you don't care what the fallout is?
Or is that a certainty, which would be the worst opinion, that somebody's certain that whatever the fallout is, it
wouldn't be that bad? Do you really think
that there's no situation in which releasing the information would be worse for the world than
than uh than not? Do you really think there's no way that that's possible?
I definitely understand if you think I don't I think they're lying. I think they're just probably protecting some
rich people. I'm not ruling that out. they might be just protecting some rich
people. If we knew that for sure that the only reason we're not seeing it is
that they're protecting some rich people, I would be in favor of releasing it cuz I don't need to protect any rich
people. I mean, I'm not on the list. So, nobody
I know is on the list as far as I know. No. If you if you can't deal if you
can't deal with the idea that there might be something that's worse than what you think is the worst thing ever,
you're not really a serious person. Nuclear war is worse
than not finding out about the Epstein files. All right. Um then I saw Elon Musk say
um that if there's no client list then what is Gain Maxwell in prison for?
So Gain Maxwell is in prison for the following things according to Grock. Sex
trafficking of a minor conspiracy to entice minors to travel to engage in illegal sex acts. Conspiracy to
transport minors transport. So basically it's all trafficking of minors for sex.
Uh as far as I know none of her charges depended on anybody except Epstein and
her to exist in the world. I my understanding is that her
conviction was entirely about what she was doing for Epstein for his own
consumption. Do you have a different opinion of that? Now, we've also heard that there are all these uh videos. So,
Pam Bondi said, "Oh, there's all these videos. We're not going to show you because it's all this illegal underage
sex stuff." Do you believe that the government has
in his possession um adults who are not Epstein
doing illegal sex acts with underage people and that they just decided not to share
that with you? Do you believe that?
Because some people believe that they just have the videos and they told you
they had the videos and you could see presumably you could tell the identity of the perpetrators and that uh all
they'd have to do is show them to you and you know maybe redact anything that's illegal to show you. But you
could certainly show let's say the face of the billionaire if if that's what was
happening. You could say, "All right, we have to block out everything else here, but you can see this happy face of this
billionaire." And trust us, if you saw the rest of the video, you wouldn't you wouldn't like it.
But we don't see that, right? So it seems to me that if if there was
anything that implicated, you know, you just powerful rich people, that would
have already been either released or hidden on day one, you know, removed
from the vaults or whatever. So, I do not believe
that uh Bondi and Patel and Bino have in their possession something as obvious as a bunch of
videos of billionaires doing criminal acts. I doubt it. I can't say for sure,
but that would be the most surprising out outlook.
All right. Um and uh Musk and Steve Bannon are on the
same page about this weirdly because Bannon has decided that Elon Musk is the
most evil person in the country and Bannon says it's his job to take him down and destroy him and have him
deported to South Africa. Anyway, Steve Bannon thinks that the GOP
could lose 40 House seats just over over the Epstein and stuff. How many of you
would vote for a Democrat over the let's say a senator or or a
House member that was Republican? How many of you, and by the way, these
Republicans that would be in the midterms, would have nothing to do with the
decision to release or not release the Epstein files? Does it seem reasonable to you that
Trump could have the best presidency you've ever seen of any president deliver to people exactly what they
wanted? But the only problem would be this Epstein situation, which
none of us know what the underlying truth is. We'd have to speculate.
But you'd be willing, according to Steve Bannon,
the voters who love Trump would be willing to sacrifice their own
Republican representative for just their local area. They would punish that guy
or that woman who had nothing to do with this. They they had no power. Maybe not
even an opinion. And and yet you believe that 40 of them
would lose their job because of something that Trump and Bino and Bondi
and Patel did. Does that sound real to you?
I don't know. Um, Musk is on the same page. He says, "Uh, what the hell kind
of system are we living in? If thousands of kids were abused, the government has videos of the abusers." Now, that's the
part I'm I don't believe is true. I don't think they have videos of the abusers, but they could,
you know, it's not 100% true that it's doesn't exist. And yet, none of the abusers were even facing charges.
So I guess here's the question that nobody has asked Trump or Bondi or Patel
or Bino and it goes like this. We know you have lots of videos.
Do any of those videos show somebody who is an adult and not Epstein doing
illegal things with underage people or any illegal things at all?
Why has nobody asked that question? Isn't that sort of the big one?
Is there any video that clearly shows the crime? And then
related to that, would there be any documents um about it? Now, I would think there
would not be documents because it seems very unlikely that Epstein would keep like a, you know, a
diary of all of his crimes. I don't think it works that way. But if there's video that had been used
maybe for blackmail, I could imagine that existing. I could imagine that. But
nobody's asked, "Do you have a video that shows the face of a powerful adult
who is not Epstein?" Very simple question. I think Pam Bondi would say,
"No, we have a whole bunch of disgusting video with underage people, but none of
it involves any famous billionaires or anything like that." Uh, not that they
didn't do it. I'm not saying that they weren't guilty. I'm saying it's very unlikely they have that video. Very
unlikely. Um,
and uh, Mike Cernovich is on the uh, is well, I'll just read you his post so you
don't have to wonder. Um, Trump's persuasive power over his base, especially during this first term, was
almost magical. Calling out obvious mistakes he made would get you an ass chewing. Trust the clan. The reaction on
Epstein should thus be startling to him, to Trump. No one is buying it. No one is
dropping it. So, I get that nobody believes it
because I don't believe it either. Um, and I I can observe that people are
not dropping it. But does that translate into I think I
will destroy everything I care about over this point because I think Trump's
not telling us everything. Is that Do any of you have that opinion
that you would destroy everything that you care about to make sure that there was justice in this specific situation?
because it's such a bad situation. So, some of you would destroy everything
that you hold dear. You would destroy your family, the country.
You would you would plunge yourself into a hellscape that you could never escape
just as long as we saw those videos. Is Is that what you believe?
I don't know. Mike Benz, getting back to Mike Benz,
um, he had a good take on it. He said, "You can't run on it during an election." He's talking about the
Epstein release. You can't run on it during the election as the visceral central symbol of the of the systems,
corruptions and coverups, and then do the exact thing you trained us to believe was corruption and cover up. You
used it as a sword. There's no shield now. Now, that's a that's a good nuanced
take that to the extent that the Epstein thing was a central emotional thing that
Trump supporters cared about, you can't really yank it away from them in exactly the way you criticized other people.
But I'll ask again. Would you therefore throw away
everything that you do hold dear just to get the just to pay them back?
You wouldn't even get the answer. It's not like it would even get you the answer. All you'd be doing is punishing
the person who said he wouldn't give it to you or didn't have it. So you would throw away everything you
hold dear. Your family, the country, all your neighbors. you'd screw everybody
and you'd still not know the truth about Epstein. So, you would throw away
everything, gain nothing, and you'd be happy with that choice.
Really? I mean, maybe. I I wouldn't rule out that there are
people who have such bad judgment that they would throw away everything they care about to get nothing in return.
Now, if you told me that not voting for um Republicans in the midterm would
would end up with you getting that information you wanted, then I'd say, "Well, okay, that's a
that's a bold move, but at least you'd get one thing you wanted. Even if you
threw away everything else, you at least get that one thing. But you wouldn't get that one thing. You you could if every
Republican lost, all of them, if every single one lost in the midterms, that
wouldn't get you any epste information because you know the Democrats aren't going to give it to you, right? We
already know that. Anyway, uh there's a fake news, it looks like
fake news in the Daily Mail that says that uh the Gain Maxwell said that she'd
welcome the chance to tell Congress the truth about Epstein's rich and powerful
people. I don't think she actually said that. That looks like fake news. I say that
because I asked Grock if it were true and Grock said,
you know, I'm paraphrasing Grock, but Grock basically said, "Well, it's only
in the Daily Mail and we don't really see anything that looks too credible
about it." So, according to Gro, you should not believe that that's true.
In related news, former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett. How many of
you remember that Israel once had a uh prime minister named Naftali Bennett? I
don't even know if you know that, but he said in a statement on X, maybe in some
other social media, too, that Epstein quote never worked for the MSAD. And he
says he was the prime minister, which means he was the head of the MSAD. So he
can tell you for absolutely certain that Epstein never worked for the MSAD.
And he would know, right? I mean, he was the prime minister. Okay.
Problem number one. Why do we assume that the MSAD would tell the prime minister something that
the prime minister should not know? Do you believe that the CIA tells the
president of the United States, no matter who it is, all the stuff that they do? No.
It doesn't work like that, right? Isn't the whole point of deniability
that you say, "All right, CIA, or all right, Mossad, you know what it is that's good for our country,
and you know what's illegal, but don't tell me about any of the illegal stuff. Just go do whatever it takes. Including
killing people. Uh uh uh. I don't want to hear it. I said do whatever it takes.
You mean including blackmailing people? Uhhuh. No, we're not talking about this. I'm
just saying go do whatever it takes. So, no. I don't believe that the prime
minister knows what MSAD is doing. Not all of it. Just because he's the boss. I
don't think it works like that at all. Secondly, this is what you call an
overly specific denial. Have I ever taught you that one way to uh recognize
a lie is the oversp specification? So, what he says is Epstein never worked
for the MSAD as in got a paycheck.
I I don't believe he got a paycheck. Do you?
No, he didn't get a paycheck. What about George Soros? Did George Soros work for
the CIA? Well, not as far as I know. I don't believe he got a 1099 or
something, but did he work compatibly with them in ways that the CIA would be
quite happy to know that he had funded this or that? Well, probably. Why would
Ebstein be any different? He's not taking a W2.
It's not like they put him on the payroll account even if he did do some
work for them. So, I don't believe anything about that denial.
But I also don't know. So, let me be clear. The the biggest mistake you can
make looking at this is certainty. If you're positive that they've got
stuff they haven't shown you, well, that's not a good take. They might.
There's a very good chance, but if you're positive, that's not a good take.
All right. Um, did you know according to futurism, Joe Wilkins is writing about
this, that the amount of electricity generated from solar is uh just going wild. So apparently the
uh nations around the world are adding so much solar energy um that it's the equivalent of uh adding
one coal plant per day. Um we're installing one gigawatt worth
of solar energy every 15 hours. And we're not talking about residential,
we're talking about in the in the uh power network, the grid.
Now, for those of you who told me with great confidence and often insulted my
intelligence at the same time, why would all these countries around the world be
installing solar as quickly as they can when the people who criticized me said,
"But Scott, you freaking idiot, don't you know that solar can never be uh
competitive because the sun doesn't shine? shine at night. Can we agree? I will stipulate the sun
does not shine at night. Can we also stipulate that I would agree that the
batteries at the moment, the best technology might last 2 to four hours
after the sun goes down, but they're not going to get you all night. And yet, and
yet it's the fastest growing thing in nations all over the world.
Does that not tell you that maybe somebody looked at the economics and decided the economics work? Or do you
think that countries all over the world, US and everybody else, China, doesn't
know how to do the math and that they got out their little Excel spreadsheet
and they they all miscalculated the value of solar energy? Is that what you
think? Or is it possible that it's economical
in the sense that we have to do every source of energy production we can or we're going to be in real trouble. So it
doesn't have to be better than the others. It just has to be something you can do to make electricity.
So anyway, here are some uh changes to the student
loan situation under the big beautiful bill that got passed. Um, I was not
completely up to date on what it costs to go to college these days.
Um, and I wondered if you are if I asked you what does a nonvy league college
cost all in, you know, from the food and shelter and books and tuition, all that.
What would you say in the comments? So, not an Ivy League school. Those would be
a lot more. But just a a good four-year college, what do you think it would cost
per year? All right. So, I'm seeing uh 120,000.
I'm seeing 200,000. 65K. 25K. All right. One of you checked with
AI. The answer is um about
63,000. It's for a private nonprofit 4-year
institution. Now, if it's a state college and you live in that state, it's
a lot cheaper. Um, it could be down in the $29,000
range. And if you live at home, even cheaper, I guess. If you went to one of the Ivy Leagues,
they're all weirdly about the same price. They're all just about $90,000 a
year. Now remember that's tuition plus room and board and everything else.
90,000 a year. Imagine having three smart kids
and they all they all qualify for Ivy League schools. And let's assume that they're not white because they wouldn't
be able to get in. Um, so 90,000 * 4 * 3,
that's what it would cost you just to send your kids to the best colleges that they could get into if they were extra
smart. But the uh new student loan caps
are uh you can only get up to $100,000 for a master's degree and uh 200,000
for professional degrees like law, medical, dental.
And uh that would be different than at the moment before the big beautiful
bill. Uh they you could borrow as much as you needed for college. But now, but now you have a cap and that's the most
you can borrow and it's less than most college would would cost. So it looks
like maybe the government is making Ivy League colleges
not economical because you wouldn't be able to get a a loan. My guess would be that going to an
Ivy League college would give you the best chance of paying off your loan
because at least if you had a degree from Harvard, you know, maybe not today,
but but but in the past, you could be pretty sure that your first job at a
college is going to be, you know, 250,000 a year and it might jack up to a
million dollars a year in just a few years. So, probably
the one that you could, you know, have the best chance of paying off, you can't
get a loan for it or at least above a certain level.
All right. Uh, junior colleges are getting a lot more attention. I think uh AI college will be the secret for the
future. So, there's more more scandal than the Biden auto pen scandal. And I I
keep imagining that there's somebody whose last name is pen as in pen n
that's you know common last name and their first name is Otto. O t o.
Do you think that anywhere in the world because I know somebody whose first name was Otto
and I know people whose last name is pen. Is it possible that there's somebody
named auto pen? I'll bet there is
I'll bet I'll bet if you did a search you would find somebody named auto pen.
Anyway, um so I guess now we know because
there's an oversight project about this that six criminals were pardoned by
Biden's autopen while Biden was vacationing and the um I
guess the New York Times finally dug into this and even they're saying that
there's no way that Biden was aware of all the names on the pardon test. So,
the autopen was pardoning people, but does that mean it's a scandal? Well, the
Biden um explanation is that uh he did not look at every name
and approve them individually. But what he did do um
but what he did do, sorry, I was just looking at a comment there. Um but what
Biden did do is he made some guidelines that said if these people you want to pardon meet these criteria then yes they
they can be pardoned. Now suppose that checked out. I don't know if that will check out but suppose it did. Would it
still be a scandal? Would there be any crime involved if Biden had said, "Look,
as long as the recommendation goes through these channels, you know, let's say people he trusts
and if they haven't committed this set of crimes, you know, and I'm just speculating here,
maybe he said, I'm not going to pardon anybody for this kind of crime, and I'm not going to do any Republicans."
Um, and it has to be looked at by a member of my staff who I trust. And if you do all of that, and again, I'm only
speculating here. If you do all of that, then yes, you have my permission to use the autopen and pardon them. Would that
be criminal? Would there be any scandal there? I feel like the autopen thing
Oh, there is an auto pen in the comments. There's a social media
account that is literally auto pen pen. Is that real or is that somebody
pretending that that's his name? I don't know. But yeah, there's an auto pen.
The pardon power cannot be delegated. That would not be delegated. If you put me on a jury and you said um that Biden
gave some guidelines and said that if he meets these guidelines, you know, I approve it,
then I would not say that that is the autopen making the decision or the staff. That's still Biden.
So, I'm not sure. I I I just don't see this as as big a scandal as the rest of
you do. There might be more to it. Um if if we found out, for example, that some
of the people being pardoned had uh bribed a member of the staff and then a
member of the staff, you know, snuck it past Biden. That would be a problem. But
it would be a problem for the person who got pardoned and the person who okayed it. It wouldn't really be Biden's,
you know, legal liability, would it? Yeah. So auto pen to me feels like it's
delegated. Uh Victor Davis Hansen was talking about
John Brennan and he noted that Brennan was uh culpable in two or maybe three of
the biggest scandals of our time. And I can remember two of them but not
the third. So two of them are the Russia collusion hoax. you know, Brennan was
probably the key architect of that. And then the uh the Hunter laptop was a
Russia uh misinformation and we know Brennan was involved in that. But the
one that I have more question on is whatever Brennan did about Ukraine.
Some people say that Brennan was, you know, somehow involved in the uh, you
know, the change of government in Ukraine and maybe that led to the war, but I don't think that's well that's not
well documented. Um, I think Victor Davis Hansen's
opinion is that Brennan was behind the idea that Trump is too cozy with Putin
and that that might have reduced our options for avoiding a war with Ukraine and Russia. Somehow that handicapped us
in some way. I I don't follow that line too much. I mean, I don't follow that line of reasoning, but
Brennan is really at the center of some bad
allegedly. So, we'll see. Um, Rasmusen did a poll,
and this is just unbelievable. So Rasperson just has a poll, a brand new one, that 60% of Democrats believe it is
likely that the Trump campaign colluded with the Russian government to win the
2016 election. You know that there is literally no
evidence of that, right? Like none at all. No, nobody suggested anything like
it. There's nobody who claims it and was in the room. There's no document.
Absolutely nothing. 60% of Democrats think that Russia helped get Trump
elected. What percentage of people do you think believe it's very likely
that uh Russia got Trump elected? Very likely. What do you think?
24%. 24% are really sure that Russia got
Trump elected. And there you go. If you're not in on the inside joke there,
I often say that 25% of every poll is idiots who get everything wrong. You you
can guarantee that there'll be a solid 25% of poll respondees who just have the
worst possible take. And there it was. Well, Andrew Cuomo,
who is now running as an independent for New York City mayor because he lost the
primary. Um, so he's trying to make a deal with uh
Eric Adams, who's running for mayor, and Curtis Siwa, who is running as
Republican. and he wants to make a deal with them that whoever of that group who
whichever is got the best polling in midepptember the others will drop out
and back whoever is in in first place. Now, I don't know if that would be
Cuomo, but doesn't that seem like a perfectly good plan?
If you were Curtis Siwa or Eric Adams
or Cuomo and the thing you cared most about besides getting the job is that
the socialist doesn't get the job, wouldn't it make sense, even though
they're running as independents and and uh Republicans are not even the same party, wouldn't it make sense for them
to collude and say, "All right, the biggest problem would be If mom dami
gets elected and puts his socialist fingerprints all over the city and ruins it, that's the biggest problem. So, if
it gets to September, which is pretty close to the election and uh one of the
three of us who's who's winning in the polls should get the endorsement of the other two and it might put you over the
top. That's not a bad idea. It's sort of a hailmary attempt by Cuomo to maybe win
when he's already lost. But is there anything wrong with that idea? The post millennials writing about
this today. I feel like is there something obvious about that idea that
doesn't work? Because to me it looks like just a good idea. So we'll see.
Well, according to Newsmax, Iran says it would resume nuclear talks with the US
if the US guaranteed no further attacks. And they also say that it is
non-negotiable that Iran will be able to enrich their own uranium in Iran.
To which I say, what does it mean to say you would be willing to negotiate
under the condition that before you start negotiating, you win everything you want.
So Iran does this thing all the time where we're open to negotiating.
You just have to give us the the things we want in advance.
So guarantee that there'll be no war and that we can enrich uranium which was the
whole problem in the first place and then we'll have negotiations. No, you can't have a negotiation by
entering the negotiation before you do the negotiation. That's not a thing. So
no, Iran is not serious about negotiating.
Um, so this may have happened already. Maybe you can tell me in the comments,
but allegedly Trump is making some big announcement about Ukraine, right? And
if Lindsey Graham can be believed, um, he's completely ruined Trump's
surprise. If I were Trump, I'd be so mad at Lindsey Graham because he sort of he
sort of tipped off what the surprise is going to be. And apparently, we don't
know this for sure, but Trump is going to approve um the sale of offensive
weapons to Ukraine. Now, if you didn't know, the weapons that the US was
involved in supplying were mostly defensive, meaning uh missiles that
would shoot down other incoming missiles, that sort of thing. But
um so Lindsey Graham says, "I don't want to get ahead of the president." And then he gets ahead of the president. He goes,
"But stay tuned about seized assets in tomorrow's announcement." All right. So
Lindsey Graham, you are terrible at keeping a secret. You're terrible at it. Apparently Trump is going to use seized
Russian assets. I think there are maybe 300 billion or something uh that we
somehow have banking control over. And he would use these seized Russian assets
to buy offensive weapons and also defensive I guess for um Ukraine.
Now, um given that Trump is saying directly that he
maybe trusted um Putin's happy talk too much and that he now believes that Putin
was just basically screwing him and tapping him along and never really
intended to make a peace deal. Now, how would you like to be Trump
where your your brand and your reputation and how other countries think of you as well as how the US thinks of
you, those are really important things. And Trump definitely is getting a black
eye from appearing to be a little too trusting of Putin's willingness to
negotiate. Do you believe that Trump feels like Putin screwed him not just
uh not just you know geopolitically but screwed him personally and screwed his
reputation and his brand and I think the answer is yes
that Trump is now off of the well maybe if we're friends and you know I treat
him well we could come to some kind of agreement that people could live with. He's completely off of that. Trump is
now in revenge mode because Putin stabbed him in the back while smiling at
him. What do you think Trump does when somebody stabs him in the back
in front of the entire world? Does he A let it go?
No. Does he B look for creative ways to destroy that person? It's B. So now
Putin went from uh the opportunity to negotiate a deal that maybe wasn't his
first choice, but at least get him out of the war. That's gone.
The current situation is how long it will take Trump to destroy Putin as a
leader of Russia. because he's going after Putin. Now, if you think he's not,
I don't think you understand who Trump is. Now, it's personal.
Now, given that his personal feelings might um line up pretty well with our
national interests at this point, which is not being too nice to Putin and being
tougher with him, um you're going to see some things that maybe you haven't seen
before. So, what would it mean if the US provided its some of its best offensive
weapons to Ukraine? Well, one of the things it might mean is that missiles
started showing up in Moscow. What would Putin do if Ukraine starts
lobbing missiles into their capital city? Would they nuke the United States?
probably not because they're not, you know, they don't want to throw everything away. Would it make him more
likely to negotiate something? I don't know. Probably not.
But my guess is that Trump is looking for a decapitation at this point. Not
not violently, but uh I think he's looking to put Putin out of business.
And I don't think he was ever looking to do that before. Now, that's just speculation because Putin is now, in my
opinion, unredeemable. Um, if you ever thought he was redeemable, but certainly as long as
Trump is president, I think Putin is in trouble.
And, uh, I don't know if that means that, you know, we're working harder to get a, you know, somebody who takes him
out on Russian soil. Um, I don't know what it means, but I would look for that
announcement today. It's going to be good. Now, I'm going to make a prediction
about the Ukraine Russia war. You ready for this? This will be a prediction that
I don't believe anybody else has made and probably won't make. All right,
here's my opinion. Every day, Russia and mostly the Ukraine are
running out of human beings to fight in the front line. So far, we all agree, right, that the number of humans will
probably keep edging down and that they'll replace them with drones
um drones and robots. So, the number of drones will increase,
the number of humans will decrease. And would you agree so far that there's
nothing that would stop that trend? So the US will be sending them our best
drones at this point, probably making them as fast as we can. And uh there'll
be more land land robots because they're already having success with the the ones
on wheels. So given that there is apparently nothing
that will stop this war, I give it three years,
in three years it's going to be almost purely a robot-onroot front line because
the people will be dead and they won't need people to operate the drones because AI will be the
operator. So instead of having a person shooting with a gun on the front line,
which we know just doesn't work because the drones kill those people, and
instead of having one person for every drone where you can never get enough drones in the air at the same time to
really convincingly win, that model has to go away, too. So within three years, and it might be
way sooner, you're going to you're going to see there's no point in having a human being anywhere near the front
line. The only thing that makes sense is that you have autonomous robots and
drones who have been taught to fight who are fighting the other autonomous drones
and robots on the other side. It's going to be a And by the way, I also don't
think there's any real chance that the war will be settled within three years
because, you know, Putin will just keep chewing away. I don't think he's going
to quit. And Ukraine really can't quit. As long as as long as they're getting
weapons and new drones and stuff, they're not going to quit. So if nobody's got a reason to quit,
three years is going to be it'll be our first robot on robot war at the front
lines. So that's my prediction. Robot on robot in three years.
Well, Trump says that maybe something will happen with Gaza in the next week
or so. Um that maybe there'll be some progress there on the ceasefire. Fared
Zakaria over at CNN said uh that if President Trump made
that happen that he would not hesitate to nominate Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize.
Now there's some bait. Uh how much does Trump want to win a
Nobel Peace Prize and have uh one of the hosts of CNN nominated him? A lot. I
would guess I would guess he would like that a lot. That's my guess. So, uh I
kind of like what Fared did there to. So, he So, Fared is doing that good
persuasion thing where if you do something bad, he's going to say he did bad. If you do something good, he's
going to do more than say it was good. He's going to nominate him for a Nobel Peace Prize.
So, I love that. Fared Fared got that totally right. Now, I don't know if it's going to
happen. Um, and I think that what Fared wanted was
a uh Palestinian state. So, I believe that Fared's
statement that he would nominate him for a Nobel Peace Prize would be dependent on the peace also involving the creation
of a Palestinian state, which is not going to happen by the way. there there
isn't the slightest chance that Israel is going to agree to a Palestinian state. There isn't the slightest.
All right. Um, so you may have seen that uh Trump was at the FIFA World Cup and
uh I don't know how much he likes soccer, but he was uh part of the people handing the trophy to Chelsea
um for winning. And uh not all of the players were happy that he joined the
celebration, I guess, but uh he he was the happiest I've ever seen him just
dancing around with the soccer players. He seemed really happy.
All right. Um, so France has launched a criminal
investigation into Elon Musk's uh X platform uh saying that the company
manipulates his algorithm to engage in foreign interference. Do you believe that? Do you believe that
X uh consciously manipulates this algorithm for the purpose of foreign
interference? I don't know. Not that I know of. I I've
seen no evidence of that, but uh apparently they think they have some. And uh they're also going to investigate
France's whether X has been extracting data from users in a fraudulent manner.
That's kind of generic. So, it looks to me like France
is just putting some pressure on the US and on Elon Musk. We'll see where that goes. All right,
ladies and gentlemen. We'll see what Trump comes up with with Ukraine and with Gaza. Uh, lots of stuff happening.
Uh it's hard for me to imagine that if he doesn't do anything more on the Epstein stuff, but he does get a uh
Nobel Peace Prize that that that's going to be bad for the world. I don't know. I feel like Trump
is going to win. All right. Yeah. France has decided that
will accept unlimited number of uh Gaza
is it Gazins or Palestinians? um unlimited number of people from Gaza
because they would all be eligible for asylum. So,
so there's that. All right.
Um ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk to the people on locals, my beloved
subscribers on locals. The rest of you, thanks for joining. I'll see you tomorrow, same time, same place for more
fun. All right.