Come on in here. Let's have some fun. It's Saturday, also
known as Saturday, and that means the all the lazy
podcasters take the day off. But not me. No, I'm here for you.
I'm here for you and especially Beth.
So Beth, this is the real show.
[Music] Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization,
possibly Martian civilization, too. It's called Coffee with Scott Adams, and
you've never had a better time. But if you'd like to take a chance on elevating
this experience to levels that no one can even understand with their tiny
shiny human brains. Well, all you need for that is a copper
mug or a glass of tanker shells a canteen jugger flask. A vessel of any
kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled
pleasure, the dopamine day of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. And it
happens. That's right. Right now go.
Oh, you feel better. You do. Yeah, you do.
Well, after uh after our show today,
you might want to join Owen Gregorian who's going to be hosting a spaces event
right after we're done. Spaces is the audio service on X. So, just go there
and look for Owen Gregorian or you can find the uh link in my X feed as Scott
Adams says. Well, I wonder if there's any news about
the health benefits of coffee. H oh yeah. uh according to the times of India
there's a new study out of uh uh the UK somewhere and uh turns out that if you
have three cups of coffee every day you can reduce your uh risk of liver disease
by 49%. Right? So, what I recommend is that when
you drink alcohol, you drink one cup of coffee for every drink cuz the alcohol
will destroy your liver cuz it's poison, but the coffee will just rejuvenate it.
You'll break even. No, do not listen to any medical advice from cartoonist
podcasters. Bad idea. Bad idea.
see what else is happening. Um, let's do some fake news. There's
some fake news today on social media. O is reporting
uh that uh the this is not true by the way. So before I even say what it is, uh
according to Grock, there's no truth to this whatsoever. But the rumor is that
Bridget Mcronone's plastic surgeon uh who was gonna give a tell all uh has
been found dead fell out of window.
But it turns out that it's probably a Russian disinformation campaign and
there's no there's no credible source and there's no credible source for the
story. Does Grock really know? Marcela asks. And the answer is, well, it's
pretty good at checking sources, so there's no other source that uh that
says it. All right, here's my favorite story. Um,
I was doing a pre-show before we went live here and I couldn't stop laughing
for about 10 minutes. So Trump just published another truth
social in which he
in which he opines that Rosie O'Donnell who as you know moved to Ireland because
she's so unhappy with the United States and Trump says that since Rosie is so
bad for the United States he's considering removing her citizenship. ship.
Now, I went to Grock and I said, "Can a president remove somebody's
citizenship?" And he said, "No,
no, a president does not have that power." Yeah. I I think it would be in some weird situation where they had lied
on a uh you know lied on some official forms to become a citizen or something.
There's a special case but basically no.
So, the thing that makes me laugh is wondering what Trump was thinking or
saying or who was in the room when he wrote that when he wrote that message
because if he wrote it alone, uh, it wouldn't be as funny. But I just
imagine him sitting there with with some of his, you know, best friends or, you know, maybe just Melania or something
like, "All right, watch this. I'm gonna send out a true social
that says I'm gonna take Rosie O'Donnell's citizenship away because she
complained about the United States from Ireland.
I I don't believe that he believes he has the power to do that. And you know
that it it's it's a slow news day.
So the last thing that Trump wants is people talking about Epstein.
So when whenever the the shelf of news is a little bear,
Trump just comes up with he just comes up with something that he
just creates out of nothing that that creates a story you can't not talk
about. Do do you think that the news can ignore
the fact that that Trump has called for maybe removing the citizenship of a of a
US citizen for complaining from Ireland.
All right. I hope you liked it as much as I did. To me, that's just hilarious. He obviously knows exactly what he's
doing. All right. Well, according to the Daily
Mail, the New York Times is admitting their
fake news from last year where I guess they uh they're accusing Trump of lying
or exaggerating about the Venezuelan gangs allegedly taking over a Colorado
apartment building. And then the New York Times said, "We looked into it.
That's not true." And then a year later they publish an article says well you
know turns out it's a little bit complicated and we can't really say it's not true.
It's uh trueish maybe kind of true maybe maybe it was fake news.
So, you know, they they might uh they might describe what they did a little
differently, but the Daily Mail is uh blaming them of admitting their fake
news. That was a big one. As as the fake news goes, that was kind of bold because
could they really not figure out what was going on there? Did the New York Times really really did they really not
have the resources or the talent or the time or something to look into that and
find out that yes, there were armed gang members standing outside the apartment
building. There was no way they could have figured that out on their own for a year.
Sorry. Trust in the media pretty low. pretty pretty low.
All right, here's a story that as far as I know has not been
debunked, but it doesn't sound real to me.
So, I'm going to tell you the story, but you we're going to play a game where you
tell me, does this sound real or does this sound a little too on the nose,
like a little too perfect? All right, here's the story. Um, I see
Ian Miller is reporting this for Outkick, but I believe there were other other outlets that are reporting it. All
right. And the report is that JP Morgan Chase CEO, the famous JB Diamond,
um said the following while at a overseas event.
Um he said that uh quote, "I have a lot of friends who are Democrats and they're
idiots. Um this Bloomberg is reporting this
while I was speaking at a foreign ministry event in Ireland." Oh well, I guess Ireland is where you go to say
terrible things like Rosie. Then uh allegedly
uh Jamie Diamond went on and said, "I always say they have big hearts and little brains. They do not understand
how the real world works. Almost every single policy rolled out has failed.
Doesn't that sound a little bit like me?
for uh you know maybe Greg Guffeld. One of the things that uh criticized
well one of the things that uh Democrats are often criticized for is policies
that don't seem to understand how human beings work that we have incentives and
stuff like that. So that is so on the nose that that makes me a little
suspicious. Um, and then it goes further and he
describes how the Democrats, you know, lost their way. And allegedly, and
again, I'm not totally sure this is real, but allegedly Jaime Diamond said
they overdid DEI. We all were devoted to reaching out to the black community,
Hispanic and LGBT community, the disabled. We do all of that, Diamond said. But the extent they got to stop it
and they got to go back to being more practical, they're very ideological. And
I'm thinking to myself, all right, well, it's sort of realish,
but he would have known he would have been quoted. Would he really say that all of his
Democrat friends are idiots? Would he say that and then go back to New York
City where his subordinates and his friends are Democrats?
Who says that? He He's a little bit too smart and too savvy to insult 75% of all
of his friends knowing that it will get back to them. So, is that real? All
right. But it goes further. Um, I guess he was asked about Zoran
Mandani, who by the way, you could call him Zoran Mandani,
or you could call him Zamani. So, it's either Zoron or Pick
one. Anyway, um, what JB Diamond allegedly said, and here I'm still a
little skeptical. He really did. But uh allegedly, quote, he's more of a Marxist
than a socialist. And now you see these Democrats falling all over themselves saying, well, he's pointing out some
real problems, affordable housing and grocery prices. Okay, maybe uh there's
the same ideological mush that means nothing in the real
world. Now again, that's the sort of thing that
I would say that it's sort of a word salad mean meaningless nothing.
Does that sound real to you? I'm I'm going to put a pin in this one
and say I'm not sure cuz a lot of the news today is fake or looks fake. This
one I don't know. I'm not buying it. I I'm willing to be talked into it being
real if if Jamie Diamond says, "Yeah, I said that." Or there's a video that
comes out someday, but at the moment, I'm going to say probably not. I'm
leaning I'm leaning toward fake news on this one, but I could be wrong. I'm
going to say 55% fake news, 45% real.
That'll be my That's my final answer. Well, somebody named Eddie Zoo has
developed AI glasses that will be used to train robots. And the way it will do
that is they'll put these AI glasses on Chinese factory workers and it will
watch them work. So the glasses will be on the the human and it will be watching
the human doing something with their hands that's assembling something or
doing some kind of a you know assembly line kind of thing and that's how they
will train robots. So they'll collect all that data and
feed it into robots and then robots will know how to put everyone in China out of
work. I think the Chinese government is going to have to
throw him out a window because uh I don't think you can put a hundred few
hundred million Chinese factory workers out of work with robots. But maybe maybe
it's coming. Well, uh Sam Alman
was talking about delay at chat GPT. and he says uh they're planning to to
launch their openw weight model next week, but they're going to delay it for
more safety testing. And you might say, "What the heck is an open weight model?"
Well, I didn't know. So, I went to Grock. I had to go to Grock today
five times while I was reading in the news. Five times the news told me
something that I just said, "I don't even know what that is. like why don't you tell me what that
means and then maybe I'll know what I'm looking at. Um but the open weight model
is an AI that is uh a little bit open
sourced not completely but it allows developers to know how the model works.
So if they want to build their own product on top of it, it operates with the AI in the best way.
Now, so so he's saying the tech got delayed because they they want to review
the high-risk areas. Now, when he's talking about high risk,
he's not really just talking about it having a bug, right? They're talking about, well, it might be
the end of all civilization, but we're going to take an extra week to
make sure that it doesn't destroy civilization. Well, it's possible that all humankind
will be eviscerated and possibly incinerated by the end of next week, but
just in case, we're going to take an extra week. Um,
I can't tell how much of this is real because there's almost nothing I've
heard about AI that I understand and also scares me.
So, why is it that the people who know the most way more than I know, why are
they so scared of AI? Is it like a mass hysteria? Is it
possible that they don't want to be the one who didn't say it was dangerous when everybody else does? So maybe they just
have to take that position because it sounds more socially responsible. If something bad happens, they'll say,
"Well, we told you it wasn't fully safe." Yeah. I've been saying since the
beginning, good things might go wrong. And then at least you would think, "Oh,
well, they're not morons, but something did go wrong and now we're all dead."
So, I'm a little bit worried about what the smartest people know that
I don't know about AI, but still, I'm not afraid of it.
Does anybody else have that feeling that you're watching the news, you're hearing what the smart people say and they tell
you, you know, might be a 10 or 20% chance it will destroy all humankind
and I still don't worry about it. What's up with that?
How how many of you actually worry about it? I don't understand the risk enough
to be actually worried. I just it just you know it's like news that just passes
through. But I'm going to add my own prediction.
I would say that we could say at this point there's a 100% chance that human
evolution, you know, with our organic bodies will be replaced by machine evolution
and robots. And I don't mean cyborgs, I mean just machines.
And that the the obvious evolutionary path is for the organic humans to die
off from one thing or another, not necessarily from AI. You know, could be,
I don't know, could be we last a million years and then the sun explodes and we
haven't gotten to another planet. So, could be there's a new virus that comes
out of a lab and kills all the humans, but we're not there yet.
But we're very close to having these uh, you know, artificial general
intelligence and artificial super intelligence robots that could
potentially take over civilization and keep things running. after all human organic people
are gone. So if you look at the history of other
species and you look at the history of like civilizations that that were here 20,000
years ago but somehow they all got wiped out. Is it more likely
that we humans will find a way to be permanent and just keep evolving for millions of years? Is that more likely
than all the organic people being killed? Not even not even being murdered, but
just, you know, apparently if you you wait long enough, there's going to be a
meteor, something's going to hit the Earth, you know, something's going to go wrong. But
the robots might be capable of, you know, as long as they can get electricity, of just
rebuilding civilization. So, I'm going to make my prediction right now that human civilization will
turn into machine evolution and it might live forever but as
machines maybe. All right. Uh Trump and Melania
visited the Texas flood zone and he did his presidential thing. Trump is very
good at the uh empathy and you know meeting with people who have had tragedy
and whatever. But uh Melania was very good as well. She was at the the table
with him and and uh and Trump said you Melania might have a few words. And I
wasn't sure if Melania was happy about that. I didn't know if she was prepared
to speak. And I still don't know if she was prepared, but she very effortlessly
um went into an empathy related we feel your pain, I'll come back kind of a
thing. And I was watching Trump cuz you know Trump will be very careful about
managing his brand and would certainly want his family members and especially his wife to uh to look good in public.
And I thought to myself that he was looking at her with a lot of pride cuz
she was really good. Very good. I I didn't know I don't know how much game
she has, but uh yeah, she nailed it. She got all the she had all the notes and
looked very capable and uh um I think he was probably quite happy
with her uh response. Uh let's see what else. According to
just the news, Ben Weeden is writing that the Treasury has announced that in
June the government will have a 27 billion surplus from tariff revenues.
Surplus meaning that after the government paid all of its bills,
it would have an extra 27 billion left over. And that happens to be the amount
that came in from tariffs. Does that sound real?
Doesn't that sound a little bit too impossible? Did we just go from uh deficits that
could never be solved to, oh, looks like June we spent less than we made?
So I went to Grock and said, is this true?
Is it possible that even for one month of the year that we would take in more
revenue as a country, we would take in more revenue than we spend?
And uh Grock said yes. But it also said that in May
u that we spent $316 billion more than we made.
So is that a thing? Can can the month of May be spending over 300 billion more
than you have and yet by June you're making 27 billion more than you spend?
Is it possible that the way budgets work in the government is that they do most
of their spending in a few months so they don't don't necessarily smooth it
out. Is that what's going on? There's something about this story that doesn't seem like it could possibly be
real. Does it? Do you think it's real that the
government took in more revenue than it has spent even in one month? Any one month? I don't know. I'm going to put a
pin in this one and say I don't believe it. Don't believe it.
Well, Peter Navaro um wrote an article for Fox News, an
opinion piece, and he's talking about the uh CBO and how their estimates were failures.
Now the CBO is the entity that um tells the public if your Congress does this or
that this will this will be what happens with the the deficit and GDP and all
that. So if you have a plan to do something for the country, you want the
CBO to say that's a good plan because that's the supposedly would be the
independent nonpartisan analysis. However,
what if I told you about complicated 10-year projections of anything?
could be uh something about the budget with lots of variables and lots of
people and years and assumptions or or it could be something about the climate.
What do I say about all of those situations? There's no human being who can predict
any of that. Those are not predictable things. Um,
but Peter Nvaro points out some specific things that the CBO does wrong. And in
there there's a lesson. And so I wanted to share that with you. So one of the
things that they uh they don't do, well, I guess they they frontload spending. So
they act like the spending happens right away which would push up maybe your your
inflation and your interest rates and then bad things would happen. And they
also don't calculate the benefit of economic growth that might be the whole
point of your spending bill. So Trump's spending bill, whatever you want to call
it, the the latest one is designed to give money back to taxpayers, which
presumably they would spend, which would be good for the GDP, um, and a bunch of other stuff, which
should goose the economy. But when the CBO does their analysis,
they do not assume that the GDP goes up more than it normally would, you know,
historically. So, long story short,
um, whoever is ever in charge of these big complicated estimates of what's
going to happen in the future, the result is always
based on their assumptions. It's not really based on some kind of
factual thing. We like to think it is. It's not based on facts and it's not
based on math. is based on the assumptions. So if the people who do the
analysis make an assumption that's friendly to the Trump administration, it
might look like we made money by cutting taxes,
but you could very easily make different assumptions and make it look like it's a
huge economic disaster. So, Peter Navaro does a good job of
simply pointing out that these are assumption-based estimates and not
necessarily some kind of fact that you should trust. And he is quite confident that the uh
latest moves by the administration will be good for the economy and reduce the
deficit if the CBO were good at doing estimates.
Well, the postmillennial is talking about how there's a Gallup poll
uh that says only 17% of American adults believe climate change will impact where
they live. Where they live. Now, isn't that funny? As soon as you put the where
you live part on climate change, then suddenly the number of people who
believe in it just drops way down because people have usually, if they're
adults, have lived it wherever they lived for a number of years. And they
probably said to themselves, uh, I've been here for a long time and the
weather looks the same to me. So, I've been in California for
35 36 years, something like that. No, how long have I been here? Longer than
that.
40 uh 46 years I've been in California in
roughly the same area of California. Do you know how much the climate has changed in my 46 years of being here?
Not really at all. As far as I know, it feels and looks the same to me. We go
through some periods of drought, but California always did, and then we have
some rainy years and everything's okay for a while. So, is this the same where
you live? How many of you live somewhere where when you first moved there
uh it was a different climate than it is now? Is there anybody?
No. If if you have your own experience, you just look around and you go, I
doesn't seem like it's any different where I live. So that's going to have an impact over time
and uh people are less worried about uh big horrible weather disasters
uh than than they used to be and they should because we get better at handling
weather disasters every year of human existence. [Music]
Uh let's see. Um according to Princeton University,
Colton Poor is writing about this. Um did you know that geothermal energy has
a lot of potential? Yes, you did because you listened to my podcast. Now,
geothermal means that if you dig a hole that's deep enough, you'll get to where
the uh the earth is super hot. And if you were to pump some water down there,
or if there was a natural water source, um you could superheat that water and
create energy from it and it would be a real clean source of energy. No, no CO2
if you if you don't like CO2. But it's not really economical.
Um, most places don't have the ideal place where you could dig a hole that
was deep enough and the rocks would be in the right place close to the surface
and all that stuff. So if you were to look at should we go hog wild and
geothermal right away? Well, somebody would do a CBO like
economic analysis and they would say, "hm, doesn't look like the economics are
good." However, according to this article, which seems uh right to me, the thing
they don't include when they look at the economics of geothermal is
that we would start by picking the ideal places. So the the place you put geothermal on
day one is going to be where it is economical. And then you're going to learn much more
about how to do it economically. And then you'll do the next one where
there's yet another place where it's perfect for geothermal. So the costs
would be much lower than if you were in a place that's bad for it. And so the thinking is that uh we are
underestimating uh how much of an impact geothermal will someday have because we assume that the
economics will not improve that much but in fact it wouldn't be hard to improve the economics. All you have to do is
make sure you're starting in the places where it's economical and then the rest
would be sort of the the normal decrease in technology costs over time. So they
think maybe it could be the third best green source of energy until until uh
until we get to better nuclear, I guess. Um, meanwhile over at Harvard,
Harvard's having a tough time because all the pressure from the Trump administration,
but according to Newsmax, um, they're thinking about creating a
conservative think tank. So, would that help?
Well, wouldn't be nothing because uh, Harvard has almost no conservatives there. So if they said, "Hey, here's our
big old Harvard conservative think tank," that would maybe, you know, give
them a little bit of relief from the criticism. But reportedly also the Crimson, that
would be the Harvard newspaper, um, is reporting that Harvard is
dismantling some, they say some, of its DEI apparatus.
So, it looks like Harvard is at least doing a lot of talking and scrambling
and maybe trying some stuff to get back in the good graces of the government
because the government has them in a in kind of a vice grip that says if you
continue to be anti-semitic and not open to let's say different
points of view such as conservative ones uh we will not give you the funding that
you require from the government, federal government. So Harvard, they had been
trying to hang tight and not do what they're told, but there might be a
little movement there. Um, I missed part of this story, so it's
a few days old. Um, but Roger Stone, I guess said in a
post uh a few days ago, um, why would Bannon, Steve Bannon, meet with Jeffrey
Epstein, both at his New York home and in Paris after Epstein was convicted on
sex crimes in Florida? Uh, why would he coach Epstein for his 60 minutes
appearance? And allegedly Bannon took 15 hours of film of Epstein
for a documentary that never got produced. So
um here's what Elon Musk said when he saw Roger Stone's accusation. Now I
don't know I don't know independently if any of this is true
but you know Roger Stone is saying it and Elon Musk um commented Bannon is in
the Epstein files. Okay.
Now is he just joking? Is is
uh Elon Musk just screwing with us because he knows we won't believe that?
Or does he know something we don't know? Or is he just guessing? I don't know.
But that would explain why Bannon is going all in on trying to destroy Musk,
uh destroy all of his businesses, nationalize SpaceX, and then deport him.
deport Musk. And I thought to I heard that the other day and I thought, wait,
is he serious? I mean, I could understand why you don't want Elon Musk
to be involved in politics. I can understand that. But do you really need
to nationalize SpaceX, which would ruin it, and do you really need to deport
him? What? What? So, I wondered like where where was any of this coming from?
So, I don't know who started the fight, but it looks like it's a cage match to
the death because um when Elon Musk says that Ben is is in
the Epstein files, again, this is a claim which I'm not aware of any
evidence to support it. It's just a social media claim. It feels like he's going for a kill shot. And when Bannon
talks about essentially destroying Elon Musk's, you know, US connection and
deporting him, that feels like he's trying to take a kill shot.
Is that really Is that really what we want? Um, I don't
I don't want either one of them to kill either one of them, but I don't know what's real and I don't know how to
value any of these claims. It's just out there. Now,
let's follow up with the summer rumors about Bonino, Patel, and Bondi.
So, as you know, we were supposed to get a big reveal about the Epstein files,
and Pam Bondi had suggested that, you know, maybe there was something more there. And now we hear and again this is
all rumors. Um I would say that the credibility of this story is about as
low as you could get. We don't really know what people are thinking, feeling
said to each other privately. We don't really know. But the rumor is that Dan
Bonino um stopped coming to work for a few days so that he could think about
whether he would resign presumably over the fact that Pam Bondi uh either
botched the Epstein reveal or Jay just can't work with her for some
reason. And then further the rumor said, and I don't think the second part is real for sure, is that Cash Patel had
said that if Bonino quits because Bondi is still there, I guess he would want
her to quit first or something. Uh that he would quit. Now, how much of that do
you believe? I do believe that they probably are a
little angry at each other. I don't know who would be angry who or for what, but beyond that,
how much do we really know about what they think and why they're doing what they're doing?
If you tell me that Bino took some days off from work,
I'm going to say, you mean around the 4th of July in the middle of July when
he's been working like a dog for months and months and he took a few days off around a weekend and I'm supposed to
make something out of that. Uh, almost everybody in the government
has taken a week off in the summer. Does that really mean anything?
Well, here are some of the other facts around this story. Um,
number one, do you remember when Pam Bondi gave some influencers some special
access to the first wave of Epstein files and she invited him to the White
House and had them all hold up their own file that they had been given secret,
you know, advanced knowledge of the Epstein information. And then when they looked at it, they found out it was all
public information. There was nothing new in it whatsoever, which was some say
almost like intentionally trying to embarrass the influencers.
Now, I think that goes too far. I doubt anybody would have done it intentionally,
but it was a bad play and it looked like it was a little bit, you know, a blown
opportunity, I guess. So
there's uh there there's some reason to believe that some people would have a reason to be mad at Bondi. And we don't
know exactly who said um tell everybody that there's nothing to see here. But
don't you assume it was Trump? Don't you believe that whatever uh Cash
Patel and Bino and Bondi said about Epstein, don't you assume
that that was all run past Trump and he said this is what you're going to say?
Don't you believe that? Cuz I definitely don't believe that any of them went
rogue and said, you know, I'll just say what I think and this is what I think.
Oh, there's nothing there. I don't buy it. So, I think it's Trump's
decisions, but maybe he was influenced by one of them more than the other. Something like
that. But if you're if you're going to try to bet whether Dan Bino is really
going to quit his job over any of the subp stuff, um I would give you the following
equation. So, Bonino went from the top of the pile
in the best job you could ever have, what I'm doing right now.
Yeah. I I laugh because even though I monetized my podcast,
um I wouldn't do it unless I sort of enjoyed it every day. Well, not even sort of. I enjoy it. I have absolute
enjoyment of doing it. Even the prep, you know, which takes hours. absolutely
enjoy it. Now, do you think that Dan Bonino went from the top of the pile,
one of the top podcasters in the country, and the podcasting is, you know, sort of the hottest area you could
be in, and then he left there to have some government job
that probably involves commuting and people hating him and all this drama and
the rumors. How much do you think he wishes he had his old job back?
Just, you know, just use your common sense. Do you think he goes into the FBI
every day and says, "Man, I made a good choice." I don't think so.
I think he made the patriotic choice. I believe he took the job because he is
a genuine patriot. That's my belief. Now again I can't read his mind and I don't
know him personally but you know we all have to be judges of character because
you can't avoid it. My judge of his character is that he's the real deal.
Meaning that he would have only taken the job if he thought he could do something that would help the president
and help the country because he was giving up a lot.
giving up the best job for the worst job. Who does that? Well,
I mean, it's like somebody joining the military because the country got attacked.
It's a really big sacrifice and he made it. Now, suppose that he
found out he couldn't do the honest job that he thought he wanted to do because
let's say somebody, we don't have to know who, said, um, well, you know the
truth, but you're not allowed to say it. What would Dan Bino say? If somebody who
had enough power to make it happen said, uh, you're not allowed to tell the truth on this issue, let's say the Epstein
issue that your your base and your fans
really really care about, but you're not allowed to tell the truth.
What would you do or what would you assume that Dan Bonino would do? Well,
at the very least, I would make some threats and I would say, "Look, here's the deal. I think we botched that
Epstein roll out, but if we can fix it, maybe I'll stay,
but if we can't fix it, I don't want to be part of a fraud.
And I'm going to go back to my perfect job." Now, if he quit and even if he
didn't tell you all the details, so this will be hypothetical. If Bonino quits
and the only public statement he makes is something like um my ethics were
incompatible with the job I was asked to do. Suppose that's it. No details. my
ethics, my my moral center was incompatible with the job I was being
asked to do. So, I'm going to go back to podcasting. Would he retain his audience?
Because it would be a little bit like admitting admitting that he lied but telling you
that he was asked to do it and then you would be noticing that he quit his job
in protest which is a very clean way to tell you that he didn't mean what he
said and that he's not in favor of it. Would you then say, you know what, I
really respect that guy because he he resigned. You know, we always say if you
really believe that, why didn't you resign? We say that all the time about other people. So, if we thought that he
was forced to be a little uh disingenuous and then you saw him quit and then he
said, "I'm not going to give you details, but you know, let's be honest, you probably know exactly why I quit."
Now, going back to my podcasting job, what would his audience do?
I think they would go back, wouldn't they? I think they would say, "You're an honest man who got caught in a bad
situation. You did the best you could. It doesn't make sense for you to stay there any longer. Glad you're back to
podcasting." And then his family would say, "Oh, finally you're back to doing
what you love. You're not commuting to Washington. Wouldn't
this be the very best time for him to quit if he wanted to quit anyway?
Do you think he wanted to quit anyway? Probably. And I'm only saying that because he left
the best job you could ever have, podcasting, to go to the worst job you
could ever have, which is you have to do what you're told and you can't do what you think is right. The worst.
So, um I don't believe he's made a decision because, you know, he probably is going
to wait till the last minute to make one. But if he decided
to go back to podcasting with just a general statement about why he's leaving, I would fully respect that.
Now, I would also respect if he stayed because I don't have any negative
knowledge about him at all. Um,
but I wouldn't believe anything about this story until it's really confirmed.
I don't believe all the who's mad at whom and why they're mad and who thinks who botched or whatever and who's
talking to who. I don't know if I believe any of that, but let's watch him. So Bino is kind of the canary in
the coal mine because we just assume he's going to do whatever is the right
thing and we don't know what that is because we don't know what pressure he's under
or anything like that. But I do think I'd expect him to do the right thing.
And given that his own personal interest would suggest that quitting kind of soon
and making this the reason for quitting that might that might kill two birds
with one stone. One bird would be he could get back to his awesome career
without without destroying his reputation. And the other is it would
tell you exactly what was going on there. Um,
at that point you would know for sure that there's something going on with the the Epstein files. So
anyway, so we'll keep an eye on that. Um, I like all three of them. I like
Bondi, I like Bungino, and I like Cash Patel. So I'll tell you what I'm not
going to do is take sides. uh unless some new information comes up
that I've never heard. To me, they all look like they're loyal Trump
mega compatible people and uh you know,
I wouldn't want anything bad to happen to any of them. Anyway,
um Bill O'Reilly
um is pretty sure that the president is behind whatever happened. He had the the
Epstein file release. He thinks that the president was behind how it was handled.
Um and then uh let's see.
All right. According to uh Glenn Beck at
the Blaze, um his team has filed a foyer request,
freedom of information request to get all of Dan Bonino's texts and emails
regarding Epstein to Pam Bondi. Now, that's something you could do. Are
you telling me that the Freedom of Information Act would allow any citizen
to just file some paperwork and then we could see the private emails of two
people who are currently in the government? Is that real?
When did when did that become real? Has that always been real? Now I understand
if people were not in government anymore or you know maybe time had gone by or something or maybe it was part of a you
know let's say part of a legal action or something but oh with the redactions
with the redactions okay so that's the catch so as long as the government can
redact anything they want I'm just gleaning this from the comments as long
as the government has the option of redacting whatever they want, then I guess the citizens can ask for whatever
they want. Doesn't mean they'll get it. But, uh, interesting play. It's an
interesting play. All right. Um, here's some more fake
news, maybe. Um, I saw a claim on social media that Epstein gave all of his money
to his brother right before he died, like two days before he died. Um, Grock
says that's not technically true, but that Epstein did um he put all of his
money in a trust. I think it was an overseas trust. Virgin Islands. Oh, US
Virgin Islands. And we assume that the trust beneficiary
was his only relative which was his brother. So in a way
he did sign over his money to his brother but probably probably through
the mechanism of the trust. We don't know the details.
Um and then allegedly the brother claimed uh his um his brother's body and
buried it in an unmarked grave next to his parents in Palm Beach. Unmarked grave. So
if you were if you were Jeffrey Epstein and you
wanted to fake your own death, would you make sure that your body could
be not be examined check? And would you make sure that all of your
money went to a trusted person so you still had access to it after your debt?
You know, allegedly dead. Yeah. Now, I don't I don't have
uh a belief that he's still alive. I have a belief that if you rule that out,
I don't know if we can rule that out. Can we? I'm not going to say I believe it, that he's still alive. I'm just
going to say, if you're asking me to rule it out, I
don't have any basis upon which to rule it out either. It looks like
coincidentally he did the very things you would do if you were trying to fake
your own death and still have still have resources when you were done.
So, we'll keep an eye on that. Um, I saw a post on X by Patrick Burn about
John Brennan. Um, apparently Patrick has some in inside information that says John
Brennan is abroad operating from a recreated MSNBC set somewhere.
Um, and that at one point he was operating from a skiff in Australia
continuing to coordinate against Trump. So, do you think that John Brennan left
the country because he's worried about
consequences? Um, I don't know. Maybe
apparently uh some more seven more people who had worked with the Jack
Smith team that was working on the cases against Trump, they have been let go.
And uh I guess there were already a whole bunch of them who had been fired for the same reason that they worked
with Jack Smith as part of the prosecution attempt or the attempt to
lawfare Trump. And what's interesting is these are not even lawyers. They were
support staff. Now does that seem like going a little too far? I can totally understand why
Trump would get rid of the lawyers who were acting against him for years, of
course. But the support staff really
that's going a little deep, but you know, it would be fair to assume that the support staff was not proTrump. So
maybe that's all he needs. He doesn't need a reason. Um, so he's cutting
pretty deep there. Um, Hillary Clinton was on Smirkish on
CNN with that big old Hill Hillary Clinton pumpkin smile and she said,
quote, "If social media platforms don't moderate content, then we lose total
control." Well, I guess that's saying it directly,
isn't it? You could interpret that sentence two different ways. One is just
that bad things will happen. The other way is exactly what she said. We will
lose total control. We Who's we?
And what kind of total control are they going to lose? Did Did Hillary say it exactly the way
she meant it? That the Democrats and and her posi would lose total control of the
narrative if they let social media just do what it does.
Unbelievable. So, yeah. And you wouldn't believe if
you didn't see the video of her talking about this. She could not get the smile off her face when she talked about the
need to censor people on social media. I mean, she seemed so genuinely happy.
It's like, "Oh, yeah. Yeah. We're going to lose control unless we we censor the hell out of them."
Yeah. Can't wait. Oh, she says she's the personification
of evil. The U State Department, Marco Rubio,
um I guess I got 1,300 staffers as part of a big overhaul of the State
Department. And I when I see something like that, 1300
people have been downsized. What were those 1300 people doing?
How can you take any organization? I mean, I know the answer, but uh it's
it's still mindboggling. That there were,300 people that according to
management were unnecessary and they were all being paid. They're
all commuting to work. How would you like to be one of the 1300 when you'd been working every day for,
you know, maybe years and years and then somebody says, "Oh, we just realized,
you know, all that work that you did for decades probably didn't need any of it."
That that was my corporate experience that gave birth to Dilbert. One day I realized in my corporate jobs
that if uh if I had never existed in my job,
nothing would be different. Nothing about the company would be different. nothing about the stock price
that every day I was going to work and getting paid, putting all the in these hours and I was completely aware that
none of it made any difference to anybody and and you could just take me away from history.
I think uh comedian Nate Bargati, he has this little uh little joke he says that
if he went back in time was that if he goes back in time that uh
nothing would change. I forget his exact punchline, but it was
something like, "Oh, so how do you make a nuclear power plant?" and he'd be
like, I don't really know
that. That wasn't his punchline. He had a better one. But the idea was that he wouldn't be able to affect history
because he doesn't know enough about even our current time. That's pretty funny. All right.
Um, so what about this story that after lots
of investigation, uh, several of the agents who were protecting Trump at the Butler,
Pennsylvania event where he got shot in the ear, that several of the agents were suspended. Now, only for days or weeks,
right? Not a permanent suspension. But here's my question. How could there be
so many agents who on the same day and at the same time
and in the same place all of them independently were doing something worthy of
suspension? What? How was that even possible?
What What the hell were they doing that several of them were worthy of
suspension? Now, if they said to me, "Well, you know, one of these people
should have kept the door locked, or one of these people should have said, make
sure there's somebody on the roof." Or one of these people should have said,
"Hey, there's a guy walking around with a rangefinder and a drone. Maybe we
should stop what we're doing and check this out." Now, you could easily understand how there'd be one or two
people there who did something that was sketchy enough that you think they should be suspended
for temporarily, but how could there be several? Like, how could you have a handful of
people who all independently did something so non-standard to their
job at the same time that they all get suspended?
I would love to know what their particular crimes were
because it does get to the question of were they doing it intentionally.
Now, I doubt it was a big um wellorganized anything because if you're
going to do an assassination like that, you're not going to have a dozen people in on it. And this would assume that,
you know, something like a dozen people did all the wrong things to get him
killed. It doesn't feel like that would be the way anybody would do a plot to have too
many people involved in it. But anyway,
so uh as you know the uh the border enforcement people, ICE,
uh they raided two different cannabis farms in California on Thursday
and collectively they they got 300 people detained for deportation. 300.
So these were two businesses. They were both pop farms and collectively they had
300 people who were undocumented and working there. What kind of power farm
these 300 people? Um I would say that's a 10 robot situation. So uh eventually
robots but apparently one person died in the
process of these raids. I didn't see the details of how they died or what they died of, but uh that's tragic.
Um and I guess one of the can cannabis farms had been donating to
uh to Governor Nuomo.
So, but that doesn't mean anything. Um the thing that bothered me is that the
price of weed in California is going to go up now. Hey, I thought Trump was
going to reduce the price of my essentials, but no. No. Apparently, the
supply of uh marijuana will go down quite a bit and uh prices might go
higher. I don't know if you know this, but the prices for marijuana have
dropped quite a bit in recent years since it was legal. When it was um first
legalized, I think an ounce cost
sometimes $400 or $500. And at the moment, the same amount and
same quality would be $250. So, the price of weed um did in fact
respond to supply and demand, and at least there was no uh
no inflation on weed. But maybe there will be.
Um there's a uh new poll that says
Democrats look uh out of touch and woke and weak. We may have talked about this one and uh
the there there was a super PAC who did the poll and they've decided that the Democrats focusing on fighting for
democracy. Um, it was still popular within the party but not in the general electorate.
How much are you surprised? Remember how many times I told you that
it was ridiculous that the Democrats thought that fighting to sup to to
uh maintain your democracy was not going to resonate with the public. That's just something that, you
know, news geeks say. But I don't know anybody who's just living their life
that who is worried about democracy being taken away by Trump. And here's the poll that supports my
hunch that the public didn't really care about the stealing democracy part because they didn't see it as real. They
also didn't care about the oligarchy. I'm seeing in the comments. Yeah, they
didn't care about the oligarchy either. If you're really into politics,
that's the stuff you debate. But if you're just a casual citizen and
somebody said maybe your biggest problems, how many just soccer moms who
are and dads who are not paying attention to politics, how many of them would say, "Well, I'm worried about the
oligarchy or I'm worried about the attack on democracy." Probably none.
But when you see um that Mandani guy when he gets all this purchase and all
this attention because he said the right thing which is we're going to work on affordability.
Affordability was really a good kill shot. You know, I'm not a M Dani fan because
he's a socialist, but when he when he found a message,
he just had energy and the right policy message. He didn't
even have solutions really. I mean, not practical ones, but it reminded me of
Trump. When people looked at Trump in the very beginning, they just said, "Oh, there's
no way." I mean, we see that he's exciting. and he's he's bringing a lot of energy. We get it. And uh yeah, yeah,
when he talks about the border and the wall, those are popular with his base, but but that's not enough. You know,
you're going to have to be an experienced politician to win an election. That's what people said. But
it turns out that Trump needed two things. The right policies and the right amount
of energy. and everything else we were willing to forgive or just enjoy as a show in my
case. And I think that mom Donnie is another example of that. He definitely
got the right policy affordability um better than I've seen anybody do it
really. So he nailed the policy, not the solutions, but at least he said, "I feel
your pain." You know, sort of the Bill Clinton thing. I feel your pain. it's affordability
and then he brought the energy. You know, you could talk about, you know, um
all different things that he did that you might like in both cases, Trump and Manny, but I feel like it just came down
to that. Do you have the right policy? I mean, have you even identified the
problem? And then do you have the energy to make it happen? and they both fit
that energy plus the right policy according to their base.
Anyway, um Jen Saki and her TV show on MSNBC
that replaced uh Rachel Matto's time slot is doing terrible in the ratings.
Uh lost 44% of her audience.
You know, I'm always surprised. Was Rachel Maddau so popular
that if you replace her with somebody who is in my opinion a bit of a clone,
you know, it's not like it's not like Jen Saki is a completely different person than Rachel Matto.
So, why would the why would the viewership go down so much? It doesn't
seem like that much of a change, but
um one of my favorite uh hobbies is looking at Fox News and what they do right and comparing it to MSNBC and what
they do wrong. MSNBC and CNN appear to be under the
impression that news is something informing people
especially about the bad news. So if you turn on CNN or you turn on MSNBC, you're
mostly going to get some bad news. And
it's not all political. you know, some of it might be natural disasters and stuff and those will be on every
network. But the the thing that Fox News has been getting right for a long time
is the understanding that people watch news as entertainment. How many of you are in that category?
When I turn on the news, I'm sort of a little bit trying to find out what's
new, but mostly I'm looking to be entertained.
And when I when I'm watching Fox News, I'm often entertained depending on what show I'm watching. And if I turn on CNN
or MSNBC, cuz I do cycle through the three of them, they're not trying to
entertain. They're trying to get you worked up or angry. And I can feel the difference.
But I I also note that um Greg Guffeld
completely changes the nature of Fox News in a way that's made them dominant.
Um I think he's he more than anybody else he's proven that people will watch
for the entertainment which is why he has two shows you know that he's on the
five which is the top ratings uh thing at that time slot and then he's got his
own show Gutfeld which again is you know tops in the ratings. So, so he's now
got, you know, two important time slots in which it's very clear to the viewer
that, you know, entertainment is why you turned it on. You learn some stuff cuz,
you know, they're dealing with the same news that the other networks are. So, it's not like you're going to be uninformed, but the intent is to make it
entertaining. And then I realized the other day that uh Jesse Waters is a
similar kind of vibe. When you watch him on the five, he's playing it for laughs
and he does a great job. And now he has his own show, so he's got his own hour,
is it? Um, in which, you know, he he plays a little bit more seriously, but
you know, you can tell he's he's always got a smile on his face. So
they have something like, you know, 3 hours every night during the week in
which it's unambiguously true that you know you're going to get entertained if you watch either of those or any of
those shows. And it's amazing to me that CNN and MSNBC have not taken any kind of
a learning from that. CNN u I think they're still doing it.
Maybe they had, maybe not. But they launched that show that was like a game show
um in which they would make fun of the news and uh Michael Ian Black was on
that and some other people and I never found it funny because it was a little
too forced. So I don't know if that's even still on but they tried.
Um let's see what else. Um, there's some uh crypto executive
orders that are expected from the White House.
And I always have trouble following this topic, but the reason that Bitcoin is
going up in value, it had a good run this week. I didn't know why. Um, but apparently it's in anticipation of it
becoming a better uh I don't know if I want to call it an investment. I guess I
would um because of the upcoming executive orders and they would do among
other things ban a central bank digital currency. I guess that would be taking
away a competitor to Bitcoin. Uh would protect self custody so you don't have
to keep it in the bank. Um and stable coins which are coins that are pegged to
the dollar meaning if the dollar goes up they go up to the same amount. uh would
be backed by the treasuries and then um there' be some market structure blah
blah blah. So some of it I don't understand but O is reporting this. So there might be
something big coming with crypto if you're watching the uh Trump and
Jerome Powell saga which is always fun. Um,
so of course, uh, you know, Trump wants Jerome Powell to quit as soon as possible or better yet just lower
interest rates because that's what he really wants. Uh but the gateway pundit is reporting that uh that Jerome Powell
is getting some uh pressure now and that uh according to uh Bill PE who's a
chairman of the board of Fanny May and Freddy Mack um Bill Posted on X quote
I'm encouraged by reports that Jerome Pal was considering resigning. I think this will be the right decision for
America and the economy will boom. Now, I don't I don't know what uh what
those rumors are. Um and I'm not sure that rumors can necessarily be trusted,
but uh there's quite a push and I think uh Bill Py is the right
person to be pushing this because he's in the domain where the interest rates are going to, you know, affect
affordability of housing in a big way. So, he certainly has a he has a dog in
this fight. Um, Intel CEO was talking to his own
company and told them it's too late for Intel to catch up in AI chips. What can
you imagine? You're CEO of a chip company saying, "Yeah, it's too late." Um, and that the big companies like AMD
and Nvidia basically have already captured the market. And uh, he said on training, I
think it is too late for us. So, Intel,
uh, that's a little too honest. It must He must have been an engineer before he was the CEO. That's a little bit too
honest. Yeah, it's too late for us. We'll never catch up. So, we're doomed.
He He didn't say they're doomed, but it feels like it.
Well, in uh good news, um the US is opening its first rare earth mine in
more than 70 years and apparently it will provide six of
the 17 rare earth materials and has tons and tons of supply. Now, it
has to be refined. I don't know who's going to do that or if we've solved that. But if you're wondering, is the US
moving in a useful way to be free of China's um control of rare earth
minerals? The answer is yes, at least for six of 17. And I expect we'll see
more movement there. All right, let me give you a lesson in economics
so that I can say that you were smarter when you left. Um,
I had made the observation that if it's true that Trump has decided that Russia
and Ukraine will never agree to a ceasefire and it does look true. I don't
know that that's true, but from my perspective, it looks very much like Trump has given up and probably should
that at least for now, Russia and Ukraine prefer to fight. Now, a bunch of people
said to me, "Scott, you stupid freaking idiot. Ukraine isn't choosing to fight."
To which I say, "Did they stop? If they didn't stop, they choose to
fight. Now, you what you really mean is they have a good reason to fight. I'm
not talking about the reason, and I'm not arguing that they don't have a good reason. I'm just saying that neither
side has made a decision to stop and they would prefer fighting over whatever
they see as the reasonable alternatives. So, as long as they both want to fight,
what would be the best thing for the greatest president in our history to do?
Let me tell you, if you know you can't fix it,
you should monetize it. And it looks like Trump might be doing
that. So, what he's done is he's uh he's providing weapons to Ukraine, but he's
making NATO pay for it. Now, what's the next thing you're going to say to me, Scott? You idiot. I
thought you understood things like this. You know that we're one of the biggest
funders of NATO, so it's not like it's free. We're
putting the money into NATO and then taking it right back out to buy our
weapons. So, it's not really monetizing it, right? It's not monetizing it.
Because a lot of it's our own money. Here's why you're wrong about that. It's
a concept called sunk costs. Here's how you should do that analysis.
Were we going to pay our 5% to NATO like the other countries were supposed to?
Yes. We were going to give NATO money no matter what they did with it. That's
called a sunk cost. Meaning that part's not going to change. The money will come
out of our pockets and it will go to NATO. Nothing will change that. that
that's that's the most public agreed upon thing that all of the countries
will try to get to their 5% you know in the not right away but there's a
schedule for that but the United States most certainly is
signed up for a certain amount of money that we will definitely take out of our pockets and definitely give to NATO.
If you know that that won't change and can't change in any reasonable way, then that doesn't count in the analysis.
So, in other words, if we're going to give NATO money anyway, the only
question is, do we want some of it back in the form of buying weapons from the US? And that's apparently what Trump's
doing. So if you understand the concept of sunk costs, the money we give to NATO
is just going to be there no matter what, no matter what they do with it. Wouldn't it make more sense for us to
have as much of that as possible come right back to the United States in terms of purchasing American products, in this
case warfighting products? Of course it would. Of course it would.
So we may have created a situation or Trump
may have in which we don't have to solve the problem at all because the two sides
that are fighting prefer the war. And again when I say they
prefer the war they would both like the other side to stop fighting and for
their side to get everything they wanted out of it. But that's not going to happen. So instead, they don't prefer stopping
because that would give the other one the win. So they prefer to fight. So Trump
monetized it. I could not be more proud of my
president. If that's what's really happening, and you know, I'm I'm getting ahead of it a little bit. Maybe that's
not what's happening, but if that's what he came up with, well, we can't stop it.
We might as well monetize it. I would be so impressed. I mean, I would
just be so so impressed if he monetized it. Anyway,
um Russian President Vladimir Putin uh allegedly is in favor of an Iran
nuclear deal in which Iran would not be allowed to enrich uranium on their own.
But since Putin is a weasel, do we think he's just trying to be useful for world
peace? Or is it more likely that if uh
Iran is not allowed to enrich that they would have to depend on other
countries such as Russia to provide them with the uranium that's
already enriched for their medical use and for their domestic nuclear energy
use. And that would give Russia some uh leverage over Iran.
So, I feel like this is more about Russia having some leverage over Iran,
but I doubt it's because he's trying to be useful
in Great Britain. According to the Telegraph, um
there are some serious people who think that Britain should build more bomb shelters because they expect to be in a
war with Russia. Are you following that? that the UK is acting like it's
preparing for war with Russia. Why would the UK want to have a war with
Russia? That seems like the worst idea in the world for both teams. Anyway, that's all
I got for today. Um, as I reminded you, Owen Gregorian will have a spaces event
in a few minutes as soon as we're done here. And you can continue talking about
this stuff or maybe some other stuff if you want, but go to X and look for Owen
Gregorian and you'll find the link to the spaces which will begin pretty soon.
All right. Um, and I'm going to say a few words
privately to the people on locals, my beloveds subscribers
to you. Thanks for joining and I will see you tomorrow. Same time, same place.
I hope. Bye for now. Oh no, it's not working again. All
right. for reasons which I cannot determine. Um, I can't go private without turning
off the studio and getting back in. So, I'll just see you on locals. Um, or I'll
see you on uh spaces. All right, everybody. Say see you later. I probably
have to end it a different way.
Uh, end and close room. All
right. Going to have to close it and reopen