Come on in. There's lots of room up front. Everybody
say hi to all of your best friends and uh find yourself a seat because we
got a show. But first, I'll make sure I can see all your comments,
especially the locals comments. There we go.
[Music]
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to take a chance on elevating this experience to levels that no one
can even understand with their tiny shiny human brains.
All you need for that is a copper mug or a glass of tankered shelter in a canteen
jug or flask vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like
coffee. And join me now for the unparallel pleasure, the dope hit of the
day. The thing that makes everything better, it's called the simultaneous sip and it's going to happen now. Go.
Oh yeah. Yeah. You know what is interesting?
Well, I'll tell you everything. Now, what is interesting is that I'll bet if
you measured the dopamine of the people watching this on a regular
basis, I'll bet it would be higher because if you listen to somebody tell
you that you're going to get a dopamine hit every day, probably over time, your dopamine
actually does spike when you do the simultaneous sip.
So, um, according to CVS, we will no longer need to remove our
shoes to go through, uh, airport security. How much do you like that?
Don't have to remove your shoes. So, all you shoe bombers,
go wild. Um, according to uh Victor David Hansen,
whose article is being rerun in the postmillennial
um, guess how what percentage of murders go unsolved in the United States?
Unsolved murders. It's 58%.
What? 58% of all the murders in the US are
unsolved. Apparently other countries that are, you know, civilized, they they solve like 80
to 90% of their murders, but in the US, unsolved.
Now, I do not recommend that you murder anyone, but if you have to, I would do it in the
United States because it looks like a pretty good deal. Now, why in the world
do you think that US murders are less solved? I have a hypothesis,
and it's just a guess, but it might have to do with the fact that there's more
gunrelated murder. Because if you murder somebody with a gun and nobody sees you
and you know they they don't find a gun, you probably get away with it, right?
But if you had a society where there weren't that many guns and you had to
beat somebody to death personally or stab somebody or strangle
them, you're probably going to leave some DNA on something, right? So, it
makes me wonder if the gun culture is a reason that there are fewer unsolved
crimes, especially if you're doing a, you know, like a gang drive by shooting,
you know. So, we we got that going for us. You can murder and have a good
chance of getting away with it, but don't do it. Don't do it.
I have to add that. Don't do it. It's just that your odds of getting away with it are not too bad. 58%.
Um, so Mark Zuckerberg and Meta, they just poached another AI expert, but this one
they poached from Apple's AI uh department.
So, how would you like to be an AI expert, but you're working for Apple?
I'm not even sure Apple is building its own AI. Isn't Apple just looking at
other people's AI and figuring out which one to build into his phone? So, if you
were the Apple AI guy, you probably really, really, really wanted somebody
to make a better offer. You know, you heard about all those uh people getting poached who might be
getting something like tens of millions of dollars, you know, just for moving to another AI company. I've got a feeling
that the Apple AI researcher um maybe he paid them. It's like, look,
I know you're giving a $100 million to some people who are going to Meta for AI, but I really, really need to get out
of Apple Apple's AI group cuz it's embarrassing. So, I will give you
$500,000 if you will hire me away from me. No, that's not what happened. But wouldn't
it be funny if I did? Well, Tesla's stock went down yesterday.
It's up a little bit today, but it went down 8%.
Because of course Elon Musk getting uh getting political scares people off the
stock and uh I'll tell you, it's getting harder and harder to be a Tesla
stockholder, which I am. Um because you just look at it and you say, you know,
uh I do respect, you know, the effort and the energy you're putting into
trying to save the world and save the country from deficit, but wouldn't it be
great too if my stock went up?
So, I've got uh it's not procedurals.
Okay, never mind. It's a funny comment. Anyway, so it's hard to be a Tesla
investor lately. You got to got to have a lot of guts. Um, I would guess and
don't buy any stock based on me, but if you would purchase stock every time uh
Elon Musk did something provocative and the stock went down, wouldn't you be in
the money now? I I feel like people go, "Oh, something might happen." And then
he just does his thing and then he retreats and then people say, "All right, we're back to normal." and then
the stock goes back up. We'll see. So, I saw a video
from uh Jay saying that uh back in February of this year when I made my
prediction about Epstein's uh client list and I forgot um how tight that that
prediction was. So, as you know, I predicted that you would never find out about Epstein's client list, but um when
I saw the video played back, I realized that I'd given a a tight little reason for it. And the reason was this.
If if the client list doesn't exist, then obviously you'll never see it.
Everybody agrees with that part, right? If it doesn't exist, you're never going to see it. But if it
does exist, it would be too valuable to give away. Meaning that whoever had that
list would have blackmail control over some of the most powerful people in the
world. Who would give that away? So there were only two possibilities that I
imagined. One is it doesn't exist, so you won't see it. And if it does exist,
it's way too useful for whoever has control over it, whoever is the president at the time, etc. So,
um, that was the basis for my prediction. Um, I saw Alex Jones seems
to be on the side of thinking that maybe Trump is using it for his own blackmail.
Maybe, maybe. I wouldn't rule it out. I saw a rumor on social media that uh
Cash Patel has a girlfriend. I don't know if this is true, by the way. So, don't don't believe this is true because
I saw something on the internet, but if any of you have some better sources,
um some people are saying that Cash Patel's girlfriend is an ex uh Israeli
intelligence officer. Is that true?
It It feels a little too on the nose, but really, is there any chance that's true? So, I'm
not going to assert that is true. It's just something that's on the internet right now.
Um then uh then the other possibility is
that you wouldn't see it because the uh the current government doesn't want to
take down some allied government. So what if the the uh Epistine list as it
were, what if it implicated a allied country?
Um you know, somebody that we didn't want to destroy. Well, that might be enough reason to withhold it. But um let
me mock the first possibility first. If Epstein was as smart as they say, and
I believe everybody agrees that although he was evil, that he was very smart.
If you were a really smart person who controlled a big blackmail network,
would you also keep a document that showed all of your crimes?
And if you had such a document, would you have it in a digital form where somebody's going to find it someday or
would you write it on a piece of paper and keep it in your pocket? Who in the world runs a major blackmail operation
and then writes down well we got Prince Andrew and uh
if you think about it for about a second do doesn't it occur to you that there
couldn't possibly be a list you know a list literally of all of his crimes or
all all the you know all the people that he coerced into crime allegedly.
No, there's no chance there was a list.
If you've been thinking, "Oh, where do we see the list?" The client list,
how in the world could there be a client list? You know, there there is a list of
people who flew on the plane, but that's because of some, you know, flight regulation kind of thing. It doesn't say
that any of them were involved in a crime, but do you think he would actually keep a list of the people that
were involved in a crime? To me, it's just funny that anybody
would think he's he was such a criminal mastermind and he and he and he kept a list of his crimes.
What kind of criminals would you be? You would be terrible criminals. If you even thought for a second that he
kept a list, you would be a terrible criminal. You
would be caught in five minutes because apparently you do not know how to get away with crimes.
All right, so here's some other uh things we know. Um,
we know uh Mike Servich is reminding us that uh
the that at one point um there was a butler
I guess there was a butler who said he was aware of all of Epistine's crimes.
So should we be hearing from the butler? Well, if the only thing that Butler knew
was that Epstein himself committed a whole bunch of sex crimes with underage
girls, that part's not new. And Epstein's dead. So, you know, that
that's not really going to change anything. So, I guess we can ignore the Butler's commentary. It might be
interesting, but it wouldn't tell you anything new about anybody who's alive.
And then uh the gateway pundit is pointing out that at one point they
tried to get some information. Um and they uh their lawyers moved to
intervene in the Gain Maxwell case and uh apparently an anonymous John Doe
I think the Gateway Pundit was trying to get some more information or something and then an anonymous John Doe
um appeared. We still don't know who it was who filed an objection to TGP
um the gateway pundit uh unsealing the sex client list.
So there was somebody who stopped the process of revealing the client list
but there is no client list. Hm. So,
there was a court case in which an anonymous person prevented the gateway
pundit from seeing the client list, but also there is no client list. Huh.
So maybe we're not being told the truth or maybe there was something about this uh
this John Doe that we'll never know.
And then uh let's see, we had uh we had Ben Shapiro who has weighed in on
this and he accepts the word of Cash
Patel and Bino and um Pam Bondi because he believes that they
would not lie. He knows two or three of them and he's sure that they would not
lie. And so he says that unless you have some
information that's not available to the rest of us, then it's sort of a case
closed. Was that what you expected? Did you expect that Ben Shapiro would say, "Oh
yeah, I'm satisfied." So I guess there was no blackmailing and I guess uh he
killed himself in his cell and I guess there's no client list.
So, looks like uh Ben Shapiro is accepting that unless some new
information comes to light that we haven't yet seen.
But uh then let's check in with uh Matt Gates.
So Matt Gates is saying there's just no way that the story we're getting is a
real story. Oh, so Matt Gates will be on the other side of it. Um, and he thinks
that it was a foreign government that took him out. A foreign government. H I
wonder what foreign government he'd be referring to, could it be
France? No.
If if you were going to just read the tea leaves of what it feels like is
happening, let me give you some other unrelated news. Unrelated to this,
completely unrelated. Oh, and I'll let me add in that Mike Cernovich is pretty
active on this topic and he thinks that Trump's legacy will suffer if this is
the final answer. you know that that we don't get anything. And I think to myself, h will
it will this legacy suffer? Let's take it a little bit further. You ready for
this? So Netanyahu is in town. and Netanyahu
apparently brought with him a copy of the document where, if I'm reading it
correctly, um, Israel has, um, submitted Trump for the Nobel Peace
Prize for all the good peacemaking he's done.
And at the same time, we're hoping that uh Trump has the magic to pull off a
deal that Israel would agree to that uh would work for Gaza that would lead us
to um gigantic just gigantic change in
the entire Middle East that would be an expansion of the Abraham Accords.
So, let's see if we can connect all of our dots.
Cash Patel may or may not have a girlfriend who used to work for Israeli intelligence. I can't confirm that.
Uh Ben Shapiro, who is often accused accused
of being a little bit too pro- Israel, is seemingly quite happy with the with
the story that other people don't seem to be happy with.
Um and then uh Matt Gates who has seen a lot more behind the curtain than you
have suggests that uh a foreign company country took him out. Does anyone think
that he's referring to anyone but Israel?
And then at the same time, if you imagine that, because we don't have evidence this,
there's no evidence of this, but if you are a conspiracy theory
person, you might say to yourself, "Wait a minute, what if Israel was behind it
and and uh we didn't want that information to get out?" What would be a
reason that we would protect that information if that were the case? And again, I
don't I have no no information that that's the case. But what if it were?
What would Trump do that would be the smartest thing for Trump to do? On one
hand, he had committed to tell us everything and not hold anything back.
But what if they had information that suggested that
Israel might have been in any way involved with Epstein?
Do you think this would have been the time to reveal it when Netanyahu is literally nominating
him for the Nobel Peace Prize? He's coming off a gigantic win with the Iran
situation and we might be getting close. there's some kind of a Gaza
um peace deal or ceasefire or something and then if he gets that that would open
the door to all the countries that are waiting to join the Abraham Accords.
So, let me let me ask you, if you were Trump
and you had promised to be completely transparent, but you didn't really maybe
you didn't know how it was going to turn out yourself, you said be completely transparent.
But hypothetically, what if that transparency would destroy
the best chance for peace the Middle East has ever seen by far? I mean,
nothing's ever been close. And it would also completely destroy his reputation.
Um, well, it would it would destroy his chance of getting the Nobel Peace Prize.
So, his legacy would be destroyed, Trump's wood, compared to what it could
be very soon. So, I'm not suggesting that Israel was
involved in any way. What I'm saying is if that were the reason that you're not
seeing the truth, it would make perfect sense for the good of the country. So I
would agree and again this is purely speculative. I have no insider information on this at
all. But if it's true that Israel was, you know, deeply involved with Epstein,
this would be exactly the time not to bring that up. You know what I mean?
And if I someday learned that Trump knew exactly what was being withheld and he
decided to just tell everybody to lie about it and if he went to Cash Patel and Dan Bonino and Bondi and said,
"Here's the deal. If you tell the truth about this, again, this is just speculation. It's not this is not real.
Um, we'll lose the biggest chance for Middle East peace we've ever had.
So, I'm going to I'm going to give you an order that this is such top secret
that you just have to lie. You're just going to have to lie. And I know you hate it, but we've got to protect this
deal. It's just too big a deal. Would you then, if that were true, and again,
I have no evidence to suggest it is. If that were true, would you tell yourself
that Trump had screwed the country or
maybe maybe took a chance with his own legacy to do the thing that would be
good for the country and good for the world? It's a complicated world.
So, um I would say that I don't believe that
uh we're being told the truth, but I also don't think that it's lying
in the traditional sense because if our people involved in our intelligence
groups or just people who know what the secrets are, if they lie to you for the
for the good of the country, which would be normal, your own intellig igence people lying to you for the good of the
country. Is that lying? Is that the lying that you would hold
against somebody if if you knew that the reason they were lying is for the good
of the country? I don't know. I wouldn't hold it against
any of them cuz that would be their job. It would literally be their job to
sometimes tell us that they don't know something when they do know something.
The other possibility, which has got to be way at the top of the possibilities,
is that by the time those three people got into their jobs, Patel and Bondi and
Bonino, that anybody who had access to that file had long ago gotten rid of anything that
was damning. Do you do you think that
do you think that if the files had such like explosive damning materials in them
that the people who had access to it and were hiding them up till now
would have said, "Ah, well, we tried pretty hard to hide them, but I guess
here you go. Here's all our damning files that we didn't want you to see." In what world would that happen? No
world. In every world I've ever lived in, the people who had access to the files would
have lost everything that needed to get lost before the people who were likely
to at least even consider making it public got into office. So, it doesn't
mean that the three people in charge that we've heard of are lying. It could be that literally everything was
removed. Have you seen the video they released of what alleges to be the the
entrance to uh Epstein cell? And uh it
alleges that that's proof that that nothing happened to at least in terms of
murder, nothing happened. And then we find out that there's a minute that's edited out of the video, a
full minute. I don't know if you've seen somebody's already used AI to insert Hillary
Clinton into the video. So, the missing one minute they say is
Hillary Clinton entering Epstein cell. That's pretty funny.
Well, if you're going to release a video and you're not going to explain why there's a minute missing because you can
see the timer. So, we know there's a minute missing. You know, we're not guessing. There's a timer on the video
and it's literally just missing the minute. So, I would say that uh
it's a suspicious situation, but it doesn't mean that the people
involved are traitors or that they're being blackmailed or whatever. Now, the
the other uh the other strong possibility is that Trump found out that
let's say let's say that Trump needed Netanyahu and Israel to make some
concessions in order to get a big lasting peace deal.
What would be the best way to get Israel to make some concessions?
Well, you might suggest that the only person preventing the public from seeing
the Epstein files is you. And that might be the case. It could be that the only
person who's standing between the public and those files is Trump, maybe. And if
he's using that to negotiate with Israel to get a lasting Middle East peace deal,
well, would that be bad?
Would you hate it? Would you hate it if Trump was using the information as
blackmail just to make sure he got a peace deal in the Middle East? I wouldn't hate it. I'm
not saying it's happening because again I have no information that would lead me to that conclusion. But if it's
happening, I wouldn't be too opposed.
You know, I mean, if you hand Trump an asset, he doesn't leave it on the table. He has
a long history of not wasting money. He doesn't leave money on the table. It would be free money. So, he'd probably
just pick it up. Anyway, we'll see what happens. Maybe someday we'll know. Maybe not.
Um, I said this before, but the BBC is telling us that u Hamas in Gaza is
completely destroyed. 95% of the leadership is dead. The ones who are
remaining are just, you know, disorganized. And essentially there's no
more Hamas leadership left. U but that means that there uh that
there's chaos there and that they're uh
and that there's a bunch of little warlords, criminal gangs are running certain areas, etc. So, it's complete
lawlessness and uh
it seems like Israel is getting everything it wants in that area because
have you noticed that there's a complete lack of complaining from the other Arab
countries? Isn't that weird? I thought the reason
that the other countries were not joining the Abraham Accords is because
the Palestinian situation had not been solved. Now, I know Gaza is not by itself the
Palestinian situation, but does it seem weird to you that nobody's complaining?
Not at the moment, is there? Is there any Middle East country who says we will
never deal with Israel? I I feel like the Middle East was was happy to take
Hamas off the the chessboard. They just can't say that out loud. So, that was
good. There's a rumor that I don't think is confirmed, but uh Charlie Kirk is a
good source and he says he's been hearing from people that there are Republicans pushing Trump to do a mass
amnesty of uh migrants who are undocumented.
Does that sound real to you? And if somebody is pushing it, do you
think there's any chance that Trump would agree to it? Maybe they're only
talking about a mass amnesty for a couple of industries.
So it might be industry specific because Trump has talked about uh not deporting
hotel workers and farm workers. So, could it be that there's a push for him
to uh make citizens out of the people who have been working here a long time
in some some specific industries? Or is it possible that none of it's true
or that only a few people are pushing for it, so it's nothing to worry about?
Yeah, he did talk about industry specific, but that doesn't mean that that's connected to this rumor. So
anyway, so that rumor is out there. Um, Putin recently fired his own
transport minister, uh, who then coincidentally died by gunshot hours later after getting fired.
I believe they're calling it a suicide. Boy, getting fired in Russia, that's a
pretty brutal deal, isn't it? Well, you've been fired. Um, but I' I got some
bad news and some worse news. Well, what's the bad news? Putin just fired
you. Oh god, no. I lost my job. What's the worst news? You can't fly.
I can't go on an airplane. No. No. They're going to throw you out of a high window to your death and you can't fly
by flapping your arms. So, bad news there. So, do you think it's a
coincidence that the guy that Putin decided to fire
um tragically died very soon after?
I don't know. Um, President Trump said yesterday that he
wants to send more weapons over to Ukraine because, as you know, Putin has
shown no interest whatsoever in peace. and he appears to be back to his winning
property or you know winning territory and grinding down the Ukrainian
military. So Putin seems to have no interest in peace and he was just
 Trump along and Trump is not happy with him. So but Trump also has no
levers to press, no buttons to push and levers to pull, I guess. So, what do you
do if you have no leverage whatsoever? Because I think it'd be hard to come up
with new sanctions that they haven't already used. And what do you what else
do you have? He's just got no no weapons. So, Trump is uh okaying some
extra weapons for Ukraine. But is that the best that we have? Is that
the best we can do? because that's not going to get it done.
So, the thing I would be looking for is for Trump to do something that's out of the box.
One thing that might be out of the box is I could imagine Trump approving some
weapons for Ukraine that Ukraine has never seen yet. And maybe Russia's never
seen it either. So, it could be that Trump would uh say, "All right, we've
been holding off on our really good weapons, but we're giving you the best that we have for shooting down incoming
missiles. That's a defensive weapon, but we really haven't given you our best
offensive weapons because we like to keep that a little secret from the bad guys. And the moment the moment you use
them, then they're going to know they exist and they're going to develop defenses against them. We don't want
that. But would that be enough to stop Trump from
saying, "All right, let's see what happens if we give them the good stuff.
Just try it for a month." What what if the what if suddenly Ukraine, which
apparently is doing great with their own domestic uh drone making industries,
they're making their own drones and making lots of them and making really good ones. What if the US has the next
level of drone? Like the drone that is so good, you just say to yourself, "Now
that's a hell of a drone. I had no idea we had that kind of drone."
What if Trump said, "All right, Putin, we've got some surprises for you. It's
not every surprise we have, but we're going to open the box." And Ukraine,
take what you want because it seems to me that our best
weapons could just rip a hole in the in the entire um Russian front line.
And probably there was a reason that we didn't, you know, we wouldn't want to allow them our best weapons.
Um, so we'll see. Did you see that uh China separately?
Uh, China is putting a uh gigantic uh I guess it's a solar satellite that
would collect a bunch of solar power in space and then it would beam it down to
where it was needed on a microwave. And when I read the story, the story was
about energy production and how they could produce more energy because you
know there's nothing blocking the sun when you're in space. So the uh satellite with the big solar power um
parts to it would collect u energy really efficiently up there in
space and then it would microwave it down to earth. Now the first thing I thought was really that microwave is
just to transport energy to the domestic audience.
Wouldn't a microwave beam from space be kind of a good weapon?
Is it my imagination that if you sent a microwave beam from space and aimed at
somebody's equipment or their power station that it would fry it, wouldn't it? So when you think about what kind of
weapons the US would have, we wouldn't obviously we wouldn't give Ukraine a satellitebased
death beam, but there might be something we have that we're willing to say, "All right,
try this. Try this for a month." Well, if you can think of even if you can come
up with even one idea that's better than that,
let me know because I have not I'm not aware of any idea that would make Putin
even consider slowing down because he's winning.
Well, according to Remix, a bunch of Ukrainian oligarchs have become incredibly rich from the war. So, uh,
there's something like five oligarchs who have cleverly played the whole war
situation. So, they've gotten richer and probably more powerful. And so, Zilinski's got these five oligarchs who
seem to be pretty happy with war the way it is. So, I'm not expecting
the powerful people in Ukraine, the most corrupt place on earth. Um,
what's that? All right.
Um, let's see. Netanyahu, who like I said is in the US,
um, said that any future Palestinian state would become a launch pad for attacks on Israel. So, in other words,
Netanyahu is saying that there will not be a U Palestinian two-state solution.
Um, and that probably is what the other Middle East countries are looking for as
their uh trigger to join the Abraham Accords. So, if the main thing is they
want a two-state solution and that's the one thing that Netanyahu says, nope.
How could you ever get to a solution? Well,
maybe somebody has some blackmail on that. We might find out. We'll see if he gets
flexible. But at the moment, he's saying no to a future Palestinian state.
But would that rule out the Emirates? Remember I told you that there there
were some uh people in the West Bank who wanted to create an emirate. So it
wouldn't be the entire West Bank. It would just be like one city, but there could be other emirates and other
cities. So, what would happen if uh it's not a two-state solution, but it's like
one state plus half a dozen emirates.
Would that give everybody enough of what they wanted? So, if you wanted to live in an emirate, there would be one nearby
you could move to it. Uh, and if you wanted to live in a non two-state
solution and just stay under Israel's rule, you'd have the option of doing it.
So, could that be a partial solution?
I don't know. I doubt it. I mean, I I' I'd bet against it, but at least it's
new. Let's talk about the uh midterms.
And uh so the current the smart people say that the Republicans will probably
keep the Senate. I don't know with what kind of majority uh but they might lose the House because that would be a
typical situation for a midterm. So, usually the the party in power, the one
that has the president, usually loses seats in the midterm elections. So,
um, what are the Democrats using for messaging and what are the Republicans?
Well, if you're a Republican, here's the bad news. The Democrats have a much better message
for the midterms because if they keep it simple, which so far they are, they say
stuff like Trump is going to cut your health care already has with the big
beautiful bill. Cutting your cutting your health care to give uh tax breaks
to the rich. Now, is that technically true?
Sort of. because he's definitely cutting some health care benefits for millions of
people. Now, he has reasons and the reasons are pretty darn good, which is
either you didn't you didn't qualify for those benefits, but you were getting them or you weren't working or you
weren't, you know, you weren't adding to the country in any way. So, the Republicans have an argument, but it's
sort of a unwieldy multi-point argument. it's not the kind that moves anybody.
Whereas the Democrats have a nice tight little message that although you could
argue, well, you've exaggerated the impact of this to the point where it
might be a little bit technically true that rich people got a tax break and that healthc care got cut, but it's not
exactly true that it was cut for the purpose of tax breaks.
But it doesn't matter. What matters is what will Democrats think and will they
adopt that messaging in their own brains as their own opinion. And they will cuz
it's tight and it's easy to remember. They cut your healthcare to give tax
breaks to the rich. That is a Trumpian level framing.
Now the good news for them is that they didn't have to think about it. it was just sort of in their laps. Um, but
that's tough to beat. Now, let's take what the uh Republican
uh take is. They're going to say, "We gave you no tax on tips."
First of all, how many people who work for tips actually vote?
Well, it's probably not the most voting public. I would guess that people who
work for tips are probably the least likely to vote in the first place. But
suppose I work for tips and I really appreciated it. I would say, "Well, I
already have that. You're not promising me anything. I already have that because it already
passed. I'm already not being taxed on tips, so I don't need to vote for you
because I'm not going to get anything new. I already have that." Um, suppose they say no tax and overtime. Same
thing. I don't need to vote for the Republicans to get that because they
already gave it to me. So, what's my reason to vote to get the things I
already have? Because they wouldn't really feel like they would lose those things. I mean,
it'd be pretty hard for the Democrats to take it away uh because that would be so unpopular.
So, the Republicans have what would be a logical strong argument for a rational
public, but we don't have a rational public that's really paying attention.
So, they don't really have a message they can sell. They have a laundry list of things they
say they got right, but that doesn't really get you elected. You're going to
need to scare somebody and ideally have a, you know, visual element to your
persuasion. It should be repeatable. It should be brief like build the wall.
They don't have that. So, we'll see if Trump can solve that by
coming up with a framing and a and a messaging that's got the right bite to
it and that's memorable and maybe it rhymes and, you know, it hits people in the fields.
Um and and I would argue that the you know
one of the driving forces for Republicans is reducing the debt.
But try selling that to the public. If you could sell the idea of reducing
the budget or at least not letting it grow as fast. U if that were even
sellable, somebody would have sold it already. In other words, we would already have
leaders who who had been brought into office because they would cut the deficit. But nobody really believes the
dem the Republicans are going to cut the deficit at this point. It just doesn't seem real. And so they're not going to
get any votes for that. So there is a real a real problem right
now. Trump could solve it because he's the messaging king, but at the moment
they really don't have anything to sell. So, that's a problem.
Um, there's a report Fox News Digital has this that uh Democrats, the uh the
elected Democrats say that their their followers are demanding more violence.
quote, "Our own base is telling us that we're uh what we're doing is not good
enough. There needs to be blood to grab the attention of the press and the public." One lawmaker said,
"But it's more than one lawmaker." Another said their constituents are convinced that quote civility isn't
working and that they should prepare for quote violence to fight to protect our
democracy. And a third one said that some of the
messages coming in from people online are crazy and some of them told
them to storm the White House and stuff like that. Now, I don't feel like that's
the majority of Democrats. It's probably just the extremists. And wouldn't you
assume that Republicans also get a bunch of extremists whenever things are not
going their way? Don't you think the extremists online
started saying stuff like, "Well, it's time to, you know, get your second amendment involved."
So, I wouldn't worry too much if the losing team is talking about, well,
maybe we should get a little violent because I feel like there's always going to be an extremist who says that
depending on which team is looks like is losing at the moment. Anyway,
so uh Trump with his um tariffs, he's sending out the letters telling people
what they're going to pay, but uh they've got to August 1st if they want
to still try to rush through with a proper trade deal. So stock market seems
to have absorbed it. And stocks were down yesterday a little bit, but they're
up today. So, it looks like the stock market completely understands Trump and
his tariff approach, wouldn't you say? In April when the stock market, you
know, just went straight down cuz cuz what Trump was doing was not it wasn't
transparent enough. And if you were an investor, you said, "I don't know where this is going, but it might be really
bad, so I'm gonna take a pause and take my money out."
Um but uh at the moment it appears that the
market has seen enough back and forth and they've seen that Trump is willing to use the tariffs sometimes as a trade
deal, sometimes as a lever and they see that he seems to be using it
successfully. For example, uh Canada immediately
removed its its tax on our uh digital platforms
because he threatened tariff. So, so now when he says it's a weapon, people can
go, "Oh, okay. Yeah, it is a weapon and he used it and it worked right away."
And they can also say now that there's a bunch of money coming in from tariffs, which by the way is paid by the American
company, you know, more so than it would be paid by the foreign company, but
the the revenue is way up. So So now if you wondered if there could
be a lot of tariff revenue, the answer is yes. If you wondered if there would
be a screaming increase in inflation because of tariffs, there still might be
some ahead. But so far, so far, no. And
if you wondered if he could use it as a club without it being used against us, kind
of looks like it can be. So the the uh most important claims that
Trump has ever made about this uh it won't hurt your inflation. It will have
a lot of uh revenue coming in that we wouldn't have otherwise. Uh at least the
government wouldn't have otherwise. And um it would cause a repatriation of our
companies. We're seeing that there a bunch of examples. And uh what was the
last thing? Oh, he could use it as a weapon. and get away with it.
So everything that Trump promised that all
seemed unlikely and dangerous, every one of them is true.
And so I think the market just said, "All right, it looks like you can do all
these uh let's say unclear things with tariffs
because you do know what you're doing." And it does look like he's going to have a 100 tariff deals in 10 minutes because
the deal is here's your new price. That's the deal. The deal is you did not
make a trade deal with us. So we'll just tell you what that's going to cost you. Here's your bill.
And indeed, he's going to have a 100 trade deals done this week. Well, you
could argue they're already done if he sent out the letters. We're done. Yep. Here's your bill. Thanks for nothing.
All right. Um,
apparently, uh, according to Zero Hedge and some other people, there was a gunman who ambushed some border patrol
agents in Texas. Uh, and, uh, this was in the context of all the anti-ICE
rhetoric from Democrats. Do you think that a gunman would have ambushed the
Border Patrol agents in Texas if there had not been so much Democrat
messaging about how bad ICE is? I don't
it people wouldn't have even thought about it because it probably was. We don't I don't know yet, but correct me
if I'm wrong, but I don't think it was a migrant that did the shooting, right?
I think it was probably an American citizen who who thought, "Oh, I got to help the migrants."
I don't know. So, maybe you can tell me in the comments. Was it an American citizen, the guy who shot the um Border
Patrol? Don't know. But I would argue that uh
as long as the border patrol is being called a bunch of Nazis that you are
encouraging that behavior. So I wouldn't take my mask off if I'm one of those guys.
Um, and I guess there were, according to Endwokeness on X, I saw saw endwokeness
said that there were 11 far-left extremists just charged in a major
terror plot to kill ICE agents in Texas. And Edwoken says it's not getting any
coverage. Well, not getting any coverage might mean that some of the news
entities don't know if it's real yet. So, I would hold my hold my fire on that
one until we get some um confirmation.
Well, Tucker Carlson had his interview with the president of Iran and um you
would not be surprised to learn that there's some push back to that.
So I guess when you have an interview with a somebody like Putin or the president of Iran, so and Tucker's done
both. If he just lets them talk and doesn't push them back too hard, it
looks to other people like he's just being a propagandist for an enemy state.
Um I don't I don't get that vibe. To me, it seems like if you could score an
interview with Putin, who wouldn't do that if they're in that business? Is
there anybody who wouldn't score an interview with Putin? And probably
knowing that he's not going to push back that hard might be what gets him the deal. Yeah, maybe maybe Putin would say
that if Megan Kelly asked him for an interview, he might say, "Uh, I don't know. she might push me too hard. So,
I'm going to say no to that one. Um, as long as you know that the Putin
or the president of Iran are just giving you an hour worth of their own propaganda, does that hurt anything?
I guess it might a little bit because the documentary effect that I talk about all the time, the documentary effect is
if you're hear one side of anything and you don't hear the counter argument and
you get an hour of it in a row, an hour of one side of any argument is really
going to be convincing. There might be a great counterargument that's even stronger, but if nobody
shows it to you, an hour of propaganda is going to be really convincing. So,
there is that risk that uh Tucker platform to people who would be
spreading their BS and people would be believing it. But isn't that the problem with all free
speech? So, I'm going to go full free speech and
say absolutely Tucker should talk to these people. And if not pushing back is
what gets them to say yes, as long as we know that, I mean, you can
kind of tell that that's part of the dynamic. Um, I wouldn't worry about it too much.
Yeah, I I I feel like even unsophisticated viewers of the news
would look at Putin and say, "Well, I don't know if that guy's telling me the full truth."
I I feel like we would know not to automatically believe the president of
Iran right after we bombed him. So, you know, there there's definitely a
little bit of negativity that could come from letting the bad guys have an hour of just giving their point of view. But,
uh, free speech, I got to go with the free speech.
Um, according to the Washington Free Beacon,
uh, Biden's advisors, there's there's a document that shows us that Biden's close advisors push Biden to debate
Trump as early as possible to show strength. Now,
the the reporting is that his advisors believed that he could show strength in
a debate. I'm going to read you what they said.
And to me, it reads like they definitely know that he's not strong and that it
will end his uh campaign. And that's what they wanted. Um,
here's some of what that letter that's been uncovered said. This would be a letter from the advisers to Biden trying
to convince him to do this early debate. Um,
here's the part. The earlier you are able to debate, the better. Now, this is just a conclusion of a longer letter.
The earlier you are able to debate, the better. The memo goes on. so that the American people can see you standing
next to Trump and showing the strength of your leadership compared to Trump's weakness and chaos.
Now, do you think they really talk like that in person? I understand why when the Democrats go
on CNN, they say Trump, oh, he's chaos. He's full of chaos. But privately
they know that doesn't mean anything, right? Why would you say that
to Biden? Do they think Biden was so adamant that
he would be sold by Well, once we put your strength next to Trump's chaos, it
almost feels like it's tongue and cheek. right now. I'm not saying it is cuz they
wouldn't write a tongue and cheek memo to, you know, the president and put it in writing and all that. So, it's not
tongue and cheek. But does it feel like what close advisors would really say it?
It doesn't. To me, there's something about that wording that almost is like a
signal maybe to, you know, to historians in the future or something. It feels like it's
a signal that they don't really mean it because who in the world would have said
that when they they know that, you know, Biden was just decomposing right in front of them at that time. Would they
really say um to showing the strength of your leadership compared to Trump's
weakness and chaos? Did they really think that Trump would look weak in a debate? They've watched
Trump debate. You you could say he won the debate or he lost. But whoever said that Trump
looked weak in a debate. None of this looks
genuine. It just looks almost like they were playing a prank on him or something. They weren't.
But uh anyway, I've told you before that uh one of the things you learn when you
study to become a hypnotist, or at least I did, is that people choose their words
in a way that reveals what they really think on the inside, even if they're not telling you that. And when I say their
choice of words to go for the stupid show your strength compared to his chaos
in a private memo that was not for public consumption.
To me that's that's that's revealing an internal
an internal thought. So I might be reading too much into it
but there you go. Well, Jack Dorsey, who you know as the
um founder of Twitter, he has a new app. Uh he's also
big part of the cash app. I guess he'd be a founder of the cash app. Um he just
released a new app that uses Bluetooth but not the internet. So it doesn't go
over the internet, just goes Bluetooth to Bluetooth. And it's called uh Bit Chat.
And so you don't need cell service and you don't need the internet. It just goes over Bluetooth. So obviously it's
only going to work in the same room. Um, but here's the funny part. The name of
it is Bit Chat. Bi T C H A T.
It's also could be pronounced at.
Did he do that intentionally? I I don't know if he did that
intentionally because if it's a way to communicate,
you're usually bitching at people. So, it's brilliant. Or if it's true that
nobody thought of that second way to to conceptualize it, that would be weird.
But, uh, at it's out there.
Well, Zion Tree who's a activist in the nuclear power
uh domain tells us that uh in Germany their nuclear provided uh nuclear power
provided nearly 30% of Germany's electricity in the '9s. Now that's been
reduced to zero because of the activists who didn't like nuclear. So now now that
their uh nuclear power has gone from 30% to zero
uh if they had not done that and they just kept the power plants they had uh
they would be using no coal whatsoever but at the moment using a lot of coal.
So has nuclear energy proven that it's the better way than getting rid of
nuclear energy? I believe it has. Meanwhile, over at Politico, Politico is
uh complaining in an article that Democrats have quote retreated on
climate and that it's a disappointing turnabout.
Remember I told you just the other day that it seems like the conversation
about climate change just sort of got really quiet all of a sudden.
Well, um, I would summarize the reason for that. It's because affordability
is a better message than climate fear. So, I guess people weren't buying the
climate change argument. It wasn't wasn't moving any elections, but affordability really hits people right
in the, you know, right in the heart in the wallet at the same time. So, if the Democrats are being smart,
they are phasing out their complaining about climate because I guess, you know,
if it goes long enough, people are going to see it didn't the predictions didn't work out.
Um, and I think we're there. So there
there's enough counter information about temperature and and all that that uh I
just don't know that the climate story is believable anymore. But affordability certainly is
believable. You tell people that things are hard to afford and you're going to help. That's pretty activating.
So, it makes sense that the Democrats would show us that it was never serious
because if they were serious about climate change being the biggest
existential risk, they wouldn't push it to the back just
to win an election, would they? Unless they're terrible people.
Well, they might be terrible people. You never know. uh Victor David Hansen's
writing in the postmillennial they've got his article that the in LA the
landscapers and um construction sites are already under staffed because the uh
the undocumented population are have been deported andor they don't want to come to work because
they might get grabbed. So we will see in LA
uh what happens when you deport the people who are doing certain number of jobs. Now, we did see the the one
anecdote in some Midwestern state, I forget which one, where where when uh ICE grabbed
almost all of their workers in some food processing plant, that that didn't cause
a long-term problem because the company immediately said, "All right,
uh we have lots of job openings." And there was a gigantic line of citizens
who wanted those jobs. But will that happen in LA? If uh LA loses its
construction workers and and landscapers, will there be an immediate
uh uptick in American citizens taking those positions? I don't know. too easy to it's too early
to say, but but we'll see if it operates the
same as it did in the in the Midwest. Um Rick Caruso, you know him from uh LA.
He's a developer. I think he ran for mayor once, but he's talking about Mayor
Bass, and he says that she's repeatedly emphasized the rapid pace of rebuilding
after the fire. And uh only a 100 building permits have
been issued after 6 months. And there are thousands of homes that
need to be rebuilt and only a 100 building permits. After 6 months. Now
the cleanup of the toxic stuff um did go faster than
you know historically you'd expect it to. So, they did a great job on the cleanup apparently.
Um, but the part where you get rid of the red tape and approve some new homes,
not so good. Not so good. So, that's my I like to end
by saying how bad my state is compared to yours. So, if you don't live in California, you can say to yourself,
"Well, thank God I don't live in California. At least I got that working for me, huh?
Um, Scott, how did these jobs get filled before 20 million people came in? Well,
um, they weren't. The answer is they weren't filled.
Um, yeah, they they didn't exist.
So, um, I do think they more jobs for teenagers.
When when I grew up, we did not have any immigrants in my little town of Windham,
New York. So, the people who did all the uh lawnmowing
were high school kids. I mean, I did a lot of the lawn mowing. Um, so maybe
you'll see high school kids do it. Not the construction stuff, but at least the
lawn care. Maybe. We'll see.
All right. Um but but keep in mind
the size of the industry is matched to the number of workers somewhat.
So if we have a much bigger industry because of the foreign workers and they all left,
um would that mean that we had a bunch of people who were looking for jobs and
and wanted those kind of jobs and would be willing to work them? We'll find out.
If if you believe that those jobs will just naturally be filled by Americans,
you're probably right. I wouldn't I wouldn't argue the point, but I do think there's enough variability in it um to
say wait and see because if it's like everything else in the world, there'll
be some type of jobs that immediately get filled and then there'll be other kinds of jobs where for reasons we don't
fully understand, nobody really wants them. So, it could be a little of both. We'll
see. All right, ladies and gentlemen.
Now, part of this is my Well, no, I think we'll end here. All right. Uh, I'm
going to talk to the beloved subscribers on locals and I'm going to talk to them
privately. So, the rest of you, I hope you enjoyed our time together and I will
see you again tomorrow, same time, same place for more fun with the news. and
persuasion too. and uh locals. I'll be there in 30 seconds privately.