[Music] in. Grab a seat. We are going to have some fun today,
won't we? Happy Tuesday.
I'm checking your stocks so you don't have to. And we'll see how the stock market is
doing. Well, the S&P 500 is up a little bit.
Bitcoin's down a little bit. Tesla's up a little bit and Nvidia doing well. All
right. All right. We'll accept that. Let me get your comments working and
then we're good to go.
[Music]
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's the best thing that ever happened to you. But if you'd like to see if you could take this rare and special
experience up to levels that nobody can even understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you need for that is
I'll bet you know. All you need is a copper mug or a glass attacker gel
inside a caned jug or flask vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now
for the unparalleled pleasure, the jumping into the day. The thing that makes everything better is called a
simultaneous sip. And it happens now. Go.
Ah, so so good. Well,
I wonder if there's any science that could have been avoided if they had just
asked me. Oh, here we are. Uh, according to the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
which is why which is the only reason that you're hearing about it is that it's a Chinese
study. It's a study that if you did in the United States, you wouldn't be able
to do in the United States. Here's what it is. So, Chinese Academy
of Sciences determined that intelligence is partly genetic.
Did how many of you knew that? How many of you already knew without any science
whatsoever that smart parents are more likely to have smart children than two dumb
parents? Is there anybody who didn't know that?
Um, they could have saved a little bit of time just by asking me. But I learned
the other day cuz I was watching some podcast I don't remember that in the United States if you said
that uh intelligence is even partly genetic you would be called what?
A racist. You you're not even allowed to uh
consider that possibility in the United States. And the funny part is 100% of
the world is completely aware that that intelligence is partly, you know, it's
not 100%. But certainly partly genetic. No doubt about that.
Anyway, we'll see if I get uh cancelled for for quoting a Chinese uh science.
Um well, Trump continues to be the funniest president of all. uh he was at
a White House faith office lunchon which makes this extra funny. Now one of the
things that tr that Trump really understands in in the comedy world is
that it's not what you say, it's the fact that you would say something in a
particular audience or a particular time. So, he's really good at making sure that the things he says are a
little bit inappropriate for the audience. That's sort of the secret of what makes
you laugh about it. Well, here he's talking to the White House Faith Office
at a lunchon and he was talking about the good things that his big beautiful
bill would do to make everybody richer. And Trump said, I said to one guy, he's
a very, very unattractive man. So that's the first thing that no
president ever said about anybody before. No president
ever has stood in front of a audience and talked about somebody he knew and
said they were a very, very unattractive man. And that's only the first part.
It's already funny. Anyway, he's a very, very unattractive man, but he's smart and he's rich. And I
said, "You better hope we get this thing passed." Talking about his big, beautiful bill, because your wife will
be gone with within about 2 minutes.
So, he's telling people out of faith lunchon that that the ugly rich guy is going to
lose his trophy wife unless Trump's tax bill goes through.
Oh, he's the funniest president ever. Well, uh, Mark Zuckerberg, who allegedly
is using gigantic piles of money to recruit AI experts to Meta,
um, says it's not just because of the money that, uh, people want to work for him for another reason that might not be
so obvious to you, but not just about the money. Um, the researchers want
access to the maximum amount of compute
because you could be an AI expert, but if every time you log on to do some AI
stuff, you don't have enough compute power, you're not going to go very far.
So, it sounds like the people who know the most about AI really want to be in an environment where they have the
maximum GPUs. Um, and Zuckerberg promises them that
they'll be part of a smalish team that'll report directly to the CEO.
And I'm thinking to myself, that's actually a pretty good package if you
knew you were, you know, directly connected to the top guy. and you were getting a lot of money, but also you had
the most compute power, which they don't have yet. But listen to this. Now, this
is I saw this on X, a Sawyer Merit. Um, he has a good good site. He's a good
follow Sawyer Merritt. He does a lot of reporting on X about Tesla and Musk
related stuff. But he's got this story that I'm having
some trouble believing. Um, so it is true. I believe that
Zuckerberg is planning enormous just enormous building buildouts of computer centers
to run his AI stuff. And they're building several multi-GW
clusters. Um, they're calling the first one Prometheus
and uh they're building another one called Hyperion. To which I say, I love
this idea of giving your data centers awesome names like Hyperion and
Primetheus. It's pretty good. Pretty good naming. Anyway, um
the reporting says that just one of these buildings that will compute will
have, you know, massive computing that one of them will cover a significant part of the footprint of Manhattan. Now,
it's not going to be in Manhattan. They're just using Manhattan as a comparison. And I saw a uh a graphic of
how big the building would be compared to the entire island of Manhattan.
and it covers most of it. Now, does that sound true to you? Do you
believe that that Facebook is right now building multiple data centers for AI?
Each one just one just one of them would be the size almost of the entire
Manhattan Island. Do you believe that? I mean, it's in it's in Sawyer Merritt's
Xi uh X feed. So he's I I think he's quite credible,
but I would be surprised if that's even possible. It doesn't seem like it's possible.
You're probably aware according to Wired magazine um that uh there are a bunch of AI
Nutify websites. Nutify, there are about 85 of them. And
what they do is you you can take a picture of somebody's face and it will
give them a naked body. So AI adds a naked body.
Um and there are 85 of them and they're making millions of dollars. And um of
course you might be surprised and amazed to learn this. I know this will be quite
a surprise, but apparently the Nudify AI websites are uh quite used by male uh
high school students to bully their classmates. Now, that's
the most predictable thing you could have ever predicted. Scott,
we're thinking of making an AI website that will make any picture of anybody
look like they're naked and doing embarrassing things. Who will be our target market? Well, I'm glad you asked,
but teenage boys. And after that, um, disgruntled ex-boyfriends and husbands.
and after that probably mess and all kinds of stuff. But um I'm going to
suggest that this might be a self um solving
problem in 2025. If you were a, let's say, a high school 16year-old girl or something
and some male bully in your class um started sending around an AI picture
that was your face, but it looked like you naked, but it would be made by AI in
2025. That would be terrible because uh it
would scar you for life and everybody would be teasing you and they'd be sending it around and you know you'd
never know who's who's giggling behind your back and it would be humiliating
and horrifying. But what happens if it becomes so common
that the moment you saw somebody you know with you know naked picture you said to yourself it's AI you wouldn't be
interested at all because you could make your own AI nude stuff anytime you
wanted and it's the now it's the millionth time there's somebody you sat
around one of your classmates looking naked and you know that's not really them. an AI body put on them. How much
attention would that even get? So, my guess is that the way through it is to
do more of it and then just wait for young people to be totally bored by it.
You know, right? Every time there's a new AI thing, you know, the first time
you see it, you go, "Whoa, are you kidding? AI made a picture of two cats
that appear to be talking. This is so cool. I have to show all my friends. And
then by the hundth time you see a meme of two cats talking and it's made by AI,
do you send it around or do you say, "Oh god, not another AI of two cats
talking." Now, I know that, you know, nude nude people is more exciting than
cats talking, but wouldn't you get bored with this? And wouldn't it become a big nothing
once everybody understood that the the nude person is not really there? It's just AI. I don't feel like it's going to
have much impact, but it might might take, I know, three to five years to get
to the point where people go, "Ah, don't send that to me anymore."
Speaking of that, allegedly Conor McGregor
sent uh full nude pictures of himself to rapper Aelia Banks, who apparently
posted them on social media to mock him. To which I say, is it too soon for Conor
McGregor to say, "That wasn't me. That was somebody did that with AI." He would
be a tough one to nudify because he's got tattoos all over his body and the AI
might not know where his tattoos are. So, I would do a uh check on his
tattoos. If the tattoos are under his clothes, or would have been if he had had clothes
and uh they still look right in the picture, well, he probably took a picture of himself naked and sent it to
her probably. But if the tattoos don't line up, might
be AI. So Conor McGregor, if he had waited
another two or three years, he could probably send his naked pictures to anybody and whoever got him would say,
"I'm so tired getting AI generated naked pictures and they wouldn't think twice
about it." Meanwhile,
over at North Carolina State University, um, is talking about an AI powered lab
for materials science, materials engineering. So there's now a lab that
can uh using AI it can decide what things to test in terms of materials you
know creating materials that have special properties for making various things
and it can decide what to test and then it can very rapidly because it's machines test a whole bunch of different
material combinations and figure out which ones are commercial
and it does that without human intervention. So the AI decides what to test and then
it tests it very quickly and decides whether to keep it or release it and
that's already up. That's like a real thing that's already here. So we've got an automated AI factory. Do you know how
big a deal that is? Do do you have any idea the upside
potential of new materials? You know, stuff that's super hard but
also super light, stuff that can conduct electricity better than other stuff. The
upside potential of just materials sounds like a boring thing, but it's
really a lot. There was a story that I decided not to
talk about until just this moment. Uh there's some teenage kid who allegedly
invented an electric motor that doesn't require these uh magnets that are rare
earth. And the idea is that you know you would change you know the entire
uh the entire situation with making uh electric motors because if you could get
rid of the magnet part you wouldn't need any rare earth minerals for making magnets. Now, I saw in the comments that
people said, "We've always had that kind of engine. He didn't didn't invent anything." I don't know about that, but
that's the size of the opportunity. It could be as big as, "Hey, we found a way
that you don't need these rare earth materials." That would be a pretty big deal.
Anyway, um Mark Cuban is uh helping the Democrats decide what
to do. Um, I don't know if the Democrats know that or they welcome it, but he's
uh he was saying on a uh interview yesterday, I think that the Democrats only message Trump sucks and that's not
going to get it done. So, how much uh I feel as if
um everybody who cares about the Democrats doing well uh that they don't really have good
suggestions for them. It's definitely a good suggestion to stop doing what
they're doing. That part is solid. But what should they be doing?
I think everybody stops with, you know, you should have a better message.
Well, everybody knows that, right? They all know they should they should have a
better message. But who is it who's coming up with a better message? At what
point do you say we all know we suck? Do you have any idea how we could do this
better? But of course, it's not just the message, is it? It's also the messenger.
So if you don't have the right messenger, doesn't matter if you have the right message. And that's of course
the the big secret to Zoran Mandani in New York City. He's he's literally a
socialist. Some would say communist, but because his uh policy is so clean
and well represented, you know, the affordability stuff, and because he's a
an appealing messenger, he's actually overcoming
being a communist. [Laughter] that if you wondered how how much power
you can get from having the right message and being the right kind of messenger, well, there's a guy called um
Trump who had the right message at the right time and he was the right messenger and
now he's the most influential person in the world. That's how important it is.
Um, and if you might ask yourself, how in the world did voters
um get comfortable with the fact that Trump is accused of all manner of things
I won't even mention? And the answer is he had the right policy. He had the
right message and he was charismatic and he could deliver that message and and
deliver results. So yeah, you could be a communist or you could be accused of
absolutely anything. But if you get those two things right, the right message and you're the right charismatic
messenger, people will say, you know what, that's kind of rare. So we're going to
overlook all those other things that otherwise might bother us.
Um, in other news, the Supreme Court has
ruled once again that Trump can do what he wanted to do, which was fire uh
hundreds of employees at the uh education department, which he would
like to get rid of. And I guess that had been blocked, you know, once again by
some district judge. And once again, Trump wins when it goes to the Supreme
Court, which you you could argue um proves that the judges are corrupt,
the judges that block it in the first place, cuz they probably know it's going
to the Supreme Court, and they probably know they're going to lose, and that the Supreme Court will will give Trump um
the power to do what the president should be able to do, which is uh hire
and fire people in the executive branch. But doesn't it feel to you like you're
just hearing the same story over and over again? How many times have you read
or heard the story? Well, a local, you know, a more local judge blocked Trump
from doing whatever and then it went to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court
sided with Trump. So now he can do it. I mean, literally, how many times have
we heard that now? I I don't know the answer to my own question, but is it a
dozen times, or am I just remembering it weird? Is it
five times? How many times has the Supreme Court slapped down the the lower court judges?
It's a lot, right? I I don't even know the number.
Well, you want to stop talking about Epstein, but we can't. We can't quit it.
It's just something new every day. So, yesterday was Monday and we were all
waiting to see if Dan Bonino showed up for work or if he quit. Um, as far as I
know, and of course things can change quickly, he did not quit. And there were
meetings in the White House in which all three Bundi and Patel and Bonino
apparently all visited the White House. There's some reports that um JD Vance
might have been trying to talk people off a ledge. There was talk that Bino
had threatened to quit if uh Pam Bondi didn't get fired or leave uh or if she
didn't change her approach to what was being released.
So the first thing I would say about that reporting is I don't trust any of it.
This is exactly the kind of reporting that
never really captures the whole thing behind the curtain. I mean, some of it might be true, but it' be out of context
and you'd be missing parts and you wouldn't know who said what and you wouldn't know their internal feelings.
When somebody else says they're really mad, you don't know if they really are or they're pretending.
So whenever I hear these stories about who said I'll quit or if you don't do
this I'll do that. I don't I don't fully believe them to be literally true. Um I
treat them more like well this is what people are saying. You know you don't know what's really happening behind the
scenes there. But uh we would know if Bongino quit. We would know that. So
apparently he did not quit. And there's some reporting that um maybe they're
relooking at their approach to what they revealed about Epstein. So maybe
possibly there might be more to come and it might be that that more to come is
the only thing that keeps Bonino staying there. um because he needs he needs to
get a win because he really Bino got kind of screwed in this whole this whole
situation. He gave up this lucrative, incredible podcasting, you know, gig he
had to have the worst job in the world, which is working for the government, and
tried to make a difference. And then he gets, you know, totally shhat upon by
this whole Epstein situation, which he had a reason to believe would go differently.
So if um to me
um Bahanino is the canary in the coal mine meaning if he doesn't quit and
nothing else happens that's going to give me one view of the whole situation
versus if he did quit and says I can't talk about it but I can't work here
anymore and if you're guessing it's because of the Epstein stuff you'd be
But I can't tell you more than that. Now, that would tell me that um the
cover up was something that didn't really need to be covered up, but maybe,
you know, there's some billionaire who's being protected or something like that. And that would not be cool with
the public or with him as well. But if he doesn't quit, then then I would have
to assume that uh he's been convinced that not
releasing the information is better than releasing it. Which would tell us that there's
something really big that's been hidden like really big more than just one
person's, you know, career or life or freedom. uh maybe something at a
national level, you know, something that would derail the country entirely if it got out. So, I I'll be watching him. Um
Benny Johnson on his podcast says there's a massive disclosure coming on
the Epstein files. So, he's uh he's got good sources.
And uh so Benny says uh that uh Bonino's back at work and
there's a major push for more transparency etc. separately. While we're waiting for
that, um there's a story in Rolling Stone. They've got an exclusive apparently
that uh way back Jeffrey Epstein hired private investigators to follow and
intimidate the FBI agents who were surveilling him um because he knew he
was being investigated by the FBI. So, he hired people to harass them. You
know, I don't know about you, but the more I hear about this Epstein guy, the more
I'm thinking he's not a nice guy. Yeah, that's a Norm McDonald joke. I stole it.
He was talking about Hiller, but it works for Epstein. All right. Um, you know how I always
tell you that you don't know, you don't know what's happening in the story until Durowitz tells you. If there's anything
that has anything to do with legality, um, you just have to wait for Dersuitz.
And I've been saying this for years now. Here it is again. So Durowitz was on
Chris Cuomo. Most of you know that Dersowitz was a lawyer for Epstein. So
he's not guessing. So you know, a lot of lot of stuff is speculation and guessing, but Durowitz
is not guessing. He he knows. And one of the things he knows
is that there's not a client list per se, you know, where Epstein put a list together of all of his bad actions. That
doesn't exist as far as Duruitz knows. Uh, and I assume it does does not exist
as well. But he says there is a redacted FBI affidavit from the accusers. So,
this would go way back. And there are several of them. So several instances in which the
accusers have named names and those documents exist
um but they've been redacted. So uh Durit says he knows the names
because he was the lawyer he was involved. So he know he um he says now
of course because as lawyer uh and I did only investigations I know who all these
people are. So Durowitz knows the truth.
He knows he knows who the bad guys are who have been accused.
But because he's a lawyer and ethical he can't tell you. But he can tell you that
if you could penetrate those redactions, you would know who was being blamed.
Now to complicate things um at one point Durowitz himself was being accused
and his accuser who has recently died that Virginia Joffrey
um well before she died she withdrew her
accusation and said she was mistaken and that she does not at the moment she does
not um well she's dead now but uh she went to the grave having said that she
did not mean it and that Durowitz did not do anything illegal that she knows
of. So here's my question now that we know
exactly what document would tell us what we need to know. But it might not be accurate because
remember if if it's true that Virginia Joffrey simply made up a story and it's
also true that apparently there was some kind of fund established that would pay
off victims who wanted to settle. So allegedly, one of the reasons that we're
not hearing from the uh alleged victims of Epstein's Island is that they
probably signed NDAs, non-disclosure agreements, and they probably took large
amounts potentially of money from a fund that was set up, I think, with Epstein's
money to pay off people who had a civil complaint.
So though that's something that could be the NDAs could be penetrated in the
context of a criminal case. So the the people who signed the NDAs
would probably sacrifice something if they talked, but not if a court made
them. So, we've got the possibility that some court somewhere will say, "Uh, I
know you signed NDAs and I know you got paid for being quiet, but uh there's a
legal case here and you just have to tell us and then they would know all."
So, so now we have uh all the characters are at work today as far as we know. Banino,
Bondi, and Patel still at work. And now Duroitz has said this document or this
set of documents these are the ones these are the exact documents which we
know exist there's no question that they exist and all you have to do is penetrate the
redactions. So my question would be, is that what
the conversation is now? Did Banino say, "Here's the deal. I I'm
just going to kick the out of the administration if they leave me hanging out to dry," which I would love it if he
did that. We don't know anything about what happened, but I would love it if
Bonino said, "You guys hug me out to dry. I'm going to take down the whole operation unless you redact these names
and put them out. What would they do? Well, they're not going to murder him.
And he has the power now. He has the power to take down the whole process. He
he could take down Trump easily. All you'd have to do is say, "Look, I've seen everything, and if you vote if you
vote for Democrats or if you vote for Republicans in the midterm, you're crazy because the whole Republican thing is u
you know, covering up stuff. So, weirdly and ironically,
Bino is a blackmailer."
Now, I say that um jokingly, so he's not breaking any laws as far as I know. But
don't you think that Bonino knows enough about what's happening on the other side of the curtain that if he had a
conversation with Trump, he could say, "Here's the deal. You can't make me a
liar. You cannot make me a liar. If if you don't if you don't release more, I'm
going to tell people what I know, but I won't do it within the administration, and you're going to have to deal with
the the blowback for that. So, how would you like to do a better job of
transparency? That's my guess.
My guess is that Bongino had so much power because he has
knowledge um that he can force them to disclose
more than they wanted to. So we'll see. Now of course you know that the risk
here um as with Durowitz is that people were making false accusations to get
paid out. So, if you see a list of people who are accused
of being abusers on Epstein Island, um my advice would be to assume that half
of them are not true, but you'll never know which half.
That's the best I can do. I mean, it will be it would destroy the reputations and lives and marriages probably of
anybody who gets named, but there's a good 50% chance that anybody
named didn't actually do what they're accused of. So, we have to deal with that.
Well, of course, the uh Democrats uh are having fun with the Epstein file
stuff because as long as we don't know what the story is, the Democrats can
kind of suggest that it's much worse than you think. So, Representative uh
Hakee Jeff, he says, quote, "If you're trying to hide something, as many of
Donald Trump's mega supporters apparently believe, then Congress should actually work hard to uncover the truth
for the American people." So, he's pushing on that division and MAGA of the
people who want to see what's going on. Then Jamie Rascin, who I call the one of
the several designated liars uh on the Democrat side, he said, "At
this point, the president owes it to the country to put it to rest one way or the other." And I agree. I agree with that.
the president owes the country. Um maybe not all the redacted information, but
definitely a better excuse for why we're not seeing it. Um I don't know about
you, but if Trump came out and said, "Here's the deal."
um the country would be at a great disadvantage if this information came
out and I can't tell you why. But trust me, it's not about the
individuals we're protecting. I'm protecting the country. And I'm making
the tough decision. I know you all wanted to see it, but you're going to have to trust me on this. The country
would be much worse off if I release everything. Now, I'm not saying that's the case. We don't know what the case
is. But at least if Trump said that, I would say to myself, all right, you
know, under the sort of republic that we live in, we hired him to make those decisions. He's
telling us that he is hiding something and there's a reason for it. Um, some
people, not everybody, would say, you know what, at least that's better than
what we had. Uh, I can move on now.
Um, you prefer truth. Well, what I learned is that many people are really
bad at understanding themselves and at understanding how to do a a risk
analysis. So, if I say to you, releasing the full
Epstein files would cause a nuclear holocaust, apparently an alarming number of you
would say, that's okay. I'd rather have the truth. And you would put up with a
nuclear holocaust. Okay.
If if you say that you're either a liar, you're an idiot.
Uh is there any other or you haven't really thought it through? Because I I
think people want to I think one people want to present themselves as the
strongest voice against these particular kinds of heinous crimes against children.
So a lot of it feels like just positioning. And if you were the president and you
really thought genuinely that releasing it would cause a nuclear holocaust,
you telling me you'd really release it? Really? Really? If if you had to make
the decision, you would allow the entire world to burn just to know the names of
those accusers? Really, even knowing that maybe they're falsely accused.
I don't believe that. I don't believe there's one person who would do that. Not even one. But I'll bet you a quarter
of the people asked would say they would because they said it's the I don't care
if the entire world burns up in a nuclear fire. It's the principle of the thing.
As if your government has been honest to you about the other stuff.
If this were the the one thing that the government lied about, I'd say, you know, there is a principle
involved here. We don't want our government to lie to us about even one thing. But is that the situation? The
situation uh I see is that the government lies to us about everything all the time and this is just more of
that. But okay.
Well, Trump says he's had enough of Putin and uh Putin talking nice but
bombing Ukraine five minutes later. And so he has issued a 50-day ultimatum to
end the war in Ukraine. And the ultimatum is that he will do secondary
tariffs of up to 100% on Russian goods that are going to other trading
partners. So the the tariff would be on anybody who deals with Russia, not just
on Russia directly. Now I don't know how much impact that would have cuz I don't
know how much exports Russia does. I mean if if they're selling stuff to
China, will we put 100% um tariffs on that?
Yeah. Will will China will will we shut down our own trade with China which would destroy the
United States so that we could stop Russia from trading with China? I don't know. So,
I'm a little uh questioning whether this would be effective, but it's better than nothing.
Then Trump confirmed that the US is going to send Patriot missiles uh and
systems to Ukraine and it will be funded by the European countries and Canada.
Now he doesn't say NATO, but I'm wondering if he means NATO. Does
he mean NATO? Because um because Ukraine
is not part of NATO. So presumably the the I I'll take a fact check on this by
the way. Presumably the budget that goes to NATO would not be used by a non-NATO
country. So it could be that this is on top of that 5% that Trump's trying to get all
the countries to. Uh but it would be the NATO countries. it
was not all of them because I guess Turkey would not be involved here. Um,
so it looks like it's not NATO but rather the countries individually and I'm guessing that because Turkey is not
mentioned and I don't believe that Turkey would want to be funding weapons
over there anyway. U but, uh, Trump has said it's not going
to be just defensive weapons like the Patriot. um it's going to be everything all of them. So he's talking about
offensive weapons that we have so far tried to not send there and
um then now he's willing to send missiles that could reach Moscow. And there's some reporting, I don't know how
reliable it is, that Trump is completely aware uh and checked that Ukraine would use
new weapons to attack Moscow itself. So, here's what I think the play is.
I think Trump is literally going to bomb Moscow, but he's going to do it through our proxy, Ukraine.
Literally going to bomb, not bomb, but let's say send missiles and drones um at
a large scale. Uh we've been sending offensive weapon for years now. Probably not the good
stuff, though. Um, so, so I think Trump is teasing that
we may have held back some of the good stuff and that that would be the difference. But I take I take that
correction. I would be surprised, very surprised if we've never sent them any
form of offensive weaponry, you know, and it's also hard to define
what is offensive and what is defensive. So, I would say uh if you're if we're
selling them missiles that are meant to be shot at a foreign city as far away as Moscow,
to me that feels like an offensive weapon. So, I think that's what's going to
happen. Anyway, um
so we'll see how that goes. Um, it feels like the odds of nuclear war are not
that high just because Putin is not insane and the last thing he wants is a
nuclear war. So, it could be that Trump is just calling his bluff and saying,
"You know what? Um, there's no limit to what we're going to do to you if you
keep doing this. We there's no upper limit. We'll just keep ratcheting up. We're going to give Ukraine better and
better weapons. And I'll say again that we're probably three years away from the
front lines of this war being only robots and not even controlled by
humans, but just robots, you know, nothing but robots because we're going,
you both sides are going to run out of humans on the front lines. They'll just be dead. and uh the robots and the
drones and the AI will be the new the new battle. So do you think that Russia
believes it could keep up with the Ukraine if the Ukraine has the full backing of the United States and the
other other countries to make as many drones and the most powerful ones they
could possibly make? Is it possible for for Russia to keep
up? Well, they've got China on their side, right? So, they could buy a lot of drones.
Um, and I guess Iran maybe. I don't know if they have anything left to sell, but
um it's going to be a robot only war because I don't think that that Putin's
going to back down and make peace. And I don't think he's going to quit.
And I don't think Ukraine's going to quit. And now the US has turned it into a profit center where we're just selling
our arms and somebody else is paying for it. So we're not going to quit. And
Europe doesn't want to lose because they don't want Putin to roll through Europe, they think. So there's nobody who really
has any chance of wanting to quit. So in three years the people will be
mostly dead on the front lines and just be robots and we'll then you're going to really see the future.
All right. Uh then Trump wants to put uh let's see what else is he doing?
Um, apparently if Trump puts a the big tariff on Russian oil, that will make
oil prices everywhere go up because Russia is a big enough exporter that if
you crush their oil industry um and reduce the supply, the entire
world will pay more according to Bloomberg. So, um, Wall Street and the stock market
did not go down when Trump threatened to make oil prices go up by blocking
Russian oil. Which means that, according to Bloomberg, that Wall Street doesn't
believe he's going to do it. In other words, the investors don't believe that uh, Trump will
successfully do anything that would cut down on Russian oil sales. So,
we'll see. There's a new poll, Harvard Caps Harris
poll that was just released yesterday that says the Democratic Party's approval rating is at a new low. It
dropped from 42% to 40. So, four and 10 respondents approved of the Democrat
party, which is down from June two points. Um,
so my question is this. It's the weirdest situation
when the the Democrats are at the lowest approval that, you know, we've seen, but
at the same time, all the smart people are saying that the Democrats are probably going to pick up seats in the
midterm. you. Now, I know the reason for that is that everybody likes their own
representative, but they think that the other ones are bad. So, they vote for their own representative, and then next
thing you know, you got you got a Democrat win when Democrats have the lowest approval level, like of all time.
I don't know if it's at all time, but it might be. So, that's a weird situation. Obviously,
that's a system problem. But speaking of uh bad advice for Democrats, who would
you say is the Democrat's smartest player? If you had to pick one person,
the one experienced, smart, proven, brilliant messenger,
uh not only a good messenger, but somebody who's good at coming up with a
message. Who do you think would be the very best the best you could get on the Democrat side?
Um, I'm seeing Roana, Fedman, Fedman. I was going to say Obama.
Don't we all believe that Obama was gifted in terms of political skill?
I even even Republicans say that. Even Republicans would admit, "Yeah, we don't
like what he did, but he has skill." Like, he was good at this politics
stuff. Good at talking in public, good at having messages that that resonated
with people. Well, here is Obama's advice for Democrats. You ready for
this? Here's their best guy, their best, smartest, experienced guy.
He says, "Uh, don't tell me you're a Democrat, but you're kind of disappointed right now, so you're not
doing anything." No, now is exactly the time you get in there and do something.
Okay. So, the first part of his is advice is to do something.
So, did that help? Were there any Democrats who didn't know that doing
something would be an advantage for them as opposed to doing nothing and continuing to, you know, suck?
So, that's a little bit generic. Obama, but there's more.
Um, he said that they should toughen up.
Oh, okay. So they should do more and they should toughen up.
Okay, that's a little bit generic, but is there more from their best wisest
advisor? Yes, there's more. He also said they should do less naval gazing
and that's it. Did he have a specific suggestion about some messaging that
might work? No. No, he didn't. All he had was generic advice about
toughening up, doing something, and having less naval gazing.
Do you imagine that he could have been more worthless if it had been his intention to do it? It's almost like if
he had a contest to see who could do the least useful thing for Democrats, it
would be right here. He would win the contest of the most useless advice ever
given. Do something toughen up and less naval gazing.
That's their best guy. If you if you try to find the second
best guy, and here guy means man or woman. Um,
so you know it's going to be somebody like Fedterman that even the Democrats are mad at because Fedman keeps agreeing
with common sense. Anyway, so that's pretty worthless.
Um, so according to u just the news,
the uh the reason that we're not hearing much from the uh Department of Justice, I guess uh on the Russia collusion
investigation is that they're trying to make a RICO case out of it. Now, RICO
means that it's not just an individual bad behavior by any person or persons,
but rather it's an organized ongoing um plot to do something illegal. Now,
you tell me, do you think they could make the case that the Russia collusion
hoax, which apparently was well known as a hoax because they knew the steel
documentary, the steel document was fake, they knew that Hillary's campaign
was paying for it from the start and that, you know, Brennan and Obama and Clapper, they all knew. So could uh do
you think that the Trump administration's people could make the case that would stand up in court that
it wasn't just an isolated incident? It was an organized Democrat
attempt to do a series of illegal things maybe.
Yeah. The dossier, not the document. Um, but on top of that to really round it
out would be the lawfare stuff. So, not only allegedly was there a conspiracy to
come up with hoaxes about Trump, the Russia collusion hoax and you know all
the other ones, uh, but the Russia collusion hoax is the one they focus on. But could they also make the case that
they had gone after Trump with lawfare that was organized, let's say, by Joe
Biden or organized by the top? Could they make that case? because then they
would have two parts that both individually would be a little
Rico like, but if you put them together and you sold both of them to a jury,
would it be would it be compelling? What do you think?
It feels like it probably is too tough to get a conviction because the one of
the things I understand from Trey Gaudy and people who know more than I do is that getting a RICO conviction, well, we
learned this from the Diddy Diddy situation because the prosecutor dropped the RICO stuff. Um, and the reason they
dropped it is it's just really hard to make the case that it's organized. But in this case, do you think they
could find enough documents and meetings and connections that they could prove that the lawfare was organized
and also that the Russia collusion hoax was organized and they all knew they
were in on it? They they knew they were doing something illegal, if not just immoral.
I don't know. I think it would be tough. I I wouldn't want to get you all excited
like like the Epstein stuff where you think that, oh man, now these people are
going to pay the price and go to jail. I doubt this will be successful, but I
like the fact they're trying because I do think that there's a real crime there. Um, so might as well take a run
at it. Well, here's a little story that makes
me or reminds me that who you know
makes a difference between whether you get rich or not. Um, apparently the US
had a one big company that was involved in making uh rare earth materials,
mining it, and it was called uh um
materials, what's it called? MP or something uh MP materials I think it's called. And
so when it became a big thing that China was going to block our rare materials
because of the tariff force, if I had known, if I had been aware that
there was a big American company that was in this space, what would I have done? I would have
bought that stock if I had known that. But for some reason,
it never really occurred to me that there would be some largestish publicly traded company in the US that would
obviously obviously benefit a lot from uh the
government saying we should do more of this domestically because if you get the government on
your side, that's when you have, you know, the big gains. But I didn't know that. I didn't know that. Never heard of
that company. didn't know we even had a big company that was in that space. But if I did, it was free money. It's
already tripled. Now, this is not investment advice because remember, it already tripled.
So, that doesn't mean it's going to keep going up. But
the people who knew that and it was, you know, sort of publicly
available information, but the people who knew that, they just got free money.
All you had to do is put a few bucks in that company and it was about as close
as you could get to a guaranteed payoff. It it wouldn't be like regular investing or gambling at all. It'd be just like
here's a dollar, give me $3 back. And when I look at this sort of situation, I
think to myself, it's terribly unfair that some of us are
paying attention. How many how many people uh have already
made huge gains by investing in AI companies because they were following
that and other people weren't. How many people made a killing in Bitcoin because
they simply paid attention and they knew more about it than people who don't know about it? A lot.
How many people, now this one could be a wild card, but how many people invested
in Tesla and have already made a bunch of money because they understood that
Tesla took a different approach to full self-driving um AI.
If you knew that, you'd say to yourself, "Oh my god, this is going to be bigger
than Uber." Um, and then if you knew that Tesla was also making robots,
which isn't something that most people know, you know, maybe at most
10% of the country knows that Tesla is even in the robot business. You know, we
if you follow the news like most of us do, you think everybody knows that, but they don't. Only 90% of the country
would not know that the Tesla company is also making robots.
So that little bit of knowledge um I've used because I've invested in AI
and I've invested in nuclear power because I because I've been following the nuclear industry and I knew that
pretty soon nuclear is going to be on fire. Well, not in a bad way, in a good
way. So, so some time ago, I put money in nuclear uh and ETF because I didn't want
to pick individual companies and uh AI and Tesla.
Now, I feel almost guilty because those are not like regular investments. Those
are simply I just knew more about the news. It's all public. I just paid
attention. And if you didn't, you wouldn't know that these were all free money.
And I didn't know about this materials company, you know, that does the rare earth. If I had, do you think I would
have invested? Yes, absolutely. I I would have put some money in it and
I would have gotten some free money back already. So, yeah, what you know and who
you know and whether you know somebody who's in this space is a difference between making money and not making
money. And it's not fair. Um, it just is.
And uh let's see what else is happening. Um so Senator uh Ran Paul
uh he wants to reissue criminal referrals about Fouchy uh and Fouch's involvement with the um
the lab and funding it and all that. And I think it was related to Fouchy
allegedly lying under oath. But um when it looked like Fouchy had a
pardon from the Biden auto pen process, then there was no point in having a
criminal referral because he was already pardoned for everything. But now since
the autopen is being questioned and some people are saying, was it even legal to
do all these pardons if if Biden maybe didn't even know what he was doing or it
went through underlings? So, that was enough of an opening for Senator Paul to reissue his criminal
referral. It seems to me like I just see Moby Dick when I when I read about Rand
Paul going after Fouchy. I I feel like Fouchy is just this great white whale
and Rand Paul will go to his grave trying to put that guy in jail.
I don't know if he ever will, but he's trying.
Um, let's talk about the autopen situation. So, if you follow the right
leading news, as most of you do, but you don't follow other news or other
podcasters, you would probably think this autopen thing is a real big scandal
and it really matters and it's going to change things if we get to the bottom of it. I don't feel that that's true
because I don't feel there's necessarily a crime there and I don't feel that any
of his rules will be reversed because uh Biden has confirmed that he
individually approved everything that was signed. Now, did he? No, of course
not. He didn't know everything that got signed. I I don't even know if he knew his name.
but he's the only one who could testify um
that he knew or didn't know what he was doing. And I also think that the excuse
that he gave some guidelines, you know, you can pardon people if they fall under these guidelines. I don't think it's a
big deal if he didn't know the specifics and then his staff said, "All right, we
have the guidelines. So, as long as we're within the guidelines, he's pre-approved it and then he auto
penetent. Is that is that the biggest problem in the world? Not really. Is
that illegal? Not that I know of. Uh, apparently there's enough of a paper
trail that you can determine that the aids were talking to to Biden in the
process of figuring out what to auto pen. If you knew that they were talking to Biden about what to auto pen and what
not to and Biden also said, "Oh yeah, I I basically approved everything."
There's not much there. Right. So if you're waiting for this auto pen thing
to become a, you know, much bigger legal thing or something like that, I don't think it will. And I don't think any of
them will be reversed. I could be surprised, but my prediction will be
none of the autopen stuff will be reversed by a court or anything else.
Um, but uh I saw Mark Halperin on his
podcast two-way, which is great by the way, great podcast. Um, he was saying
that there's something missing. there's a dog not barking in the New York Times
coverage of it because you probably said to yourself, well, why did it take the New York Times so long to get on that
story about the autopen and uh but then they eventually did and they did a big
feature story on it. So, you say to yourself, all right, all right, a little later than I wanted, but at least the
New York Times, you know, legitimately looked into it. But then uh Mark
Halperin points out that there are some things that you definitely would have seen in the story if it had been a story
about Republicans and Trump. And he says, "Uh, so what do law
professors think about that? What do Republicans think about that?" And I thought, "Yeah,
is there no reference to a law professor in the New York Times article where the
law professor would say, "Oh, he could totally use the autopen. It's no problem." or the law professor would
say, "Oh, no." If if there's no paper trail, they specifically approved it.
That can't stand. So, wouldn't you expect that if they had been a
Republican, they would have talked to a law professor who would have said, "Oh, no. Trump can't do that. We have to
reverse all that." But when it was about Biden, no law professor. Nope. Didn't
need to talk to any law professors. Um,
and then uh and then they'd also have a Republican
saying this needs to be investigated. So that's probably true. So where is the
Democrat? Is there not one Democrat? Nobody in Congress, not one who says the
autopen thing ought to be investigated. you would definitely see it if it was a
Republican. So, he's right from that. So, it's absent from the story. Daily
Caller is writing about that. Um,
you probably already know the answer to this, but apparently the June inflation
numbers are out. Um, have you seen them yet? Are the June
inflation numbers good or bad? It looked
like the stock market was kind of happy, so it must be in line with expectations,
but we'll but that's today. So, keep an eye on that. We'll see if those tariffs
are working their way into the inflation numbers. Fox News is reporting that um police
officers in blue cities are uh are leaving in large numbers to go to red
states because if you're a police officer in a red state um the people in charge actually
appreciate you. If you were a police officer in a blue city, you you might be in, you know,
arresting people all day long and they're just getting released and uh everybody hates you. So, I would add
this to the list of how in the world could blue cities survive
because they're spending themselves into ruin. um their their real estate will become
worthless such as a crime scene and then the people who could keep the peace are
leaving like crazy. Is there is there any narrative
that would save the blue cities? And I think the answer is no. No, I I think
they will actually fail. Now, I don't know about New York City because that's sort of a special case, but I do expect
a lot of cities to just turn into, you know, escape from New York kind of
hellscapes even more than they are. So, I'd love to
see some Democrat even explain how they they could ever write the ship because I
don't see any way. To me, it looks like it's a one-way trip to um being Detroit.
Has Detroit ever recovered from the car industry leaving?
It hasn't, right? Isn't Detroit still in horrible situation? I think it is. I
don't see how that's going to change. Well, Ronda Santis has a big win. Fox
News is talking about this, too. So, six southern states have banded together to
create a new accreditation commission for uh higher education.
Now, if you don't know how important that is, it's really important because if the liberals are the only ones who
can say your college is accredited, and nobody wants to go to a college that's not accredited by somebody, um then you
know the left has all the power about what is a what is an acceptable college.
So now there's going to be a competing accreditation um process at least for
six states in which if you're a college you can get accredited by the uh this this new
organization and then you don't have to be super woke because I imagine that you
have to be super woke to be accredited by the old accreditation system. So this
might be a really big deal. We'll see. Um
uh all right. So according to a publication
called European Conservative, the European Union is uh having a tough time
trying to figure out how to uh address Trump's tariff and trade escalation.
So, you would not be surprised to learn that the European Union is full of countries
that don't all agree with each other about what to do and when. So, it's like hurting cats. So,
apparently the European Union believed that they were um negotiating with Trump
on a trade deal and things were going along fine. They weren't close to a deal, but they felt h things are moving
along. And then suddenly Trump says, "Yeah, we're not negotiating anymore. Uh here's a 30% tariff. Uh thank you for
your business." Which I'm starting to love as a technique.
I do love the fact that Trump says, "We gave you plenty of time. If you if you
can't come up with a trade deal that we can live with, we'll just send you the bill.
And then if you want to have access to our markets, you'll pay the bill. If you
don't want access to our markets, well, your entire economies will be in big trouble. So, I kind of love the fact
that instead of pushing hard, he's simply saying, "Do what you want to do,
but we're going to do what we want to do, which is charge you 30% if you want access to our markets, and then just
make it their problem." That that's the beauty of it. It just makes it their problem instead of our
problem and their problem. No, it's just your problem. You know, just here's the bill. I do love that.
All right. Uh I saw Zubie, you know Zubie.
Uh you've seen him on X, you've seen him on podcasts, and he was uh published on
X the median age by country. Now for those of you who are not nerds, median
um doesn't mean average. It means that half of the people are above that and half of the people are below it. So in
Monaco, the median age is 57. Half of all the people in Monaco are
older than 57. That's pretty old. But you have to have
a lot of money to live in Monaco. So that's probably why Japan is 50.
That's the median age in Japan is 50.
That's way up there. Um, if you get all the way down to
China and the USA, we're very similar. China, the the median age is 40 and the
USA is 39. If you took away illegal immigration,
I believe our median age would probably jump up pretty high, but I don't know about that for sure. Um,
but then you keep going down the list. India, the median age is 30.
Just think about that. In in Japan, the median age is 50
and in India, it's 30. in Mexico is 31. So these are very young countries. Um
but it gets younger. Philippines 26, Egypt 24, Ghana 21, Nigeria 18, and
Niger 15. The country of Niger
the median age is 15.
In Japan is 50. No, in Japan is 50.
Wow. Now, obviously, we assume that Niger the people are having lots of
babies. So, it's probably uh you know, if you look at the birth rate plus the
age, you've got a pretty good way to predict who's going to be doing well in the future. If I had to guess,
if I were an investor, and this is not investment advice, but if I were an investor, I'd say, hm, Japan looks like
a problem. Um, Germany is 47. That's kind of old.
But then I would look at Mexico where the average age is or the median age is 31 or India at 30 and I would tell
myself hm there's going to be a lot of energy in those companies countries. So
if you had a very long investment horizon uh I would favor the younger countries
the the ones that at least are developed a little bit. So, don't invest based on
my commentary. I'm not investment advice guy. But, uh, ladies and gentlemen,
that's all I have for today. Kind of a slow news day. I suspect there'll be lots more this this afternoon.
And I'm going to say some words privately to the beloved people on locals. U, the rest of you, thanks for
joining. I will see you um tomorrow. Same time, same place. All right, locals
coming at you private in 30 seconds.