Come on in. Yeah, it's been a while. Come on in and
grab a seat. I'll uh I'll check the stocks for you.
Um the S&P is flat.
Tesla is up. Bitcoin is up. All right. Well, let me
get the comments working and then we got a show for you. You'll
love it. All right, there we go.
[Music]
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
Civilization. Yeah, it's probably the best time you'll ever have in your life. But if you'd
like to take a chance of taking it to levels that no one can even understand
with their tiny shiny human brains. Well, for that all you need is a copper
mug or a glass, a tankered shell just tie in a canteen, jug or flask, a vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite
liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled pleasure. The
dopamine hit of the day thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. And it happens now.
Go. Is it to be physically active the next day? Can you believe it?
What are the odds? Well, maybe they should have asked me first. Scott, we're
thinking about spending a million dollars to do a survey to find out or a
study if getting enough sleep helps you be physically active the next day. And I
would have said, save your money. Save your money for half of that. I'll give you the answer. Yes.
Well, according to the City University of London, uh, one in four young adults
are living with mental health conditions. Um, one in four. Now, you know how I
always make fun of surveys and I always tell you, um, it seems like 25% of the
public gets every survey question wrong. You know, if you asked, "Is it good for
people to eat food?" 25% would say, "Oh, I don't think so. I don't think you
should eat food." So, it doesn't matter what the what the question is, 25%
will be on the wrong end of every question. But
about one in four young people have mental health conditions.
Do you think that's the same people? Because I hope it is because if we've
got 25% of the public is just stupid and 25% is mentally ill.
That's that's no world I want to live in. But I think I do I think maybe it's
not the same people. Well, I have a confession.
Uh I would like to throw myself on the mercy of the court. Um because I know
this won't be popular, but lately because there's not much on TV in the
summer and I've been spending a lot of time in front of it cuz I'm not as
active as I used to be. Um I've started to enjoy
women's basketball. I know. I know you you can give me all
your insults, but when was the last time you actually watched a WNBA game? So,
there's a couple of things I like about it. Number one, men's basketball has
turned into garbage because it's nothing but the three-point shots and and then
seeing which which foul the referees want to call.
When I'm watching men's basketball, all I feel like the only thing I'm watching is the referees deciding when
to call a foul because there's a foul on every play, multiple players all the
time. There's just nothing but non-stop fouling. And so watching 7 foot guys do free
throws, it's just not fun. and and it starts looking like every player looks
like every other player, you know, not physically, but the way they play.
So, you turn on WNBA and there are two things that they do right that makes me
like it. One is that they don't play good defense,
you know, relative to what the men do. When the men are playing hard defense, you know, especially like a playoff
game, they're just smothering the other side and fowling them every second. It's just no fun to watch. But the women, you
know, give the other women a little extra space until they get, you know, really close to the basket. So, there is
more scoring um and less fouling it looks like. But
the other thing they do, right, which is kind of funny, is they have a multicolored basketball.
So, it's two or three colors. I'm not sure what it is, but it's a colorful basketball
as opposed to the men's, which is just one color. And what what happens is when
the women shoot, especially the three-point shots, you can see the uh
the rotation of the ball. And the rotation of the ball as it's heading toward the basket
makes me happy because the really good shooters have
almost this perfectly designed backwards um rotation. So as soon as it leaves
their hand, you say to yourself, "Whoa, looks like they you had a good handle on
that one." So it's actually more fun. So I' I've been enjoying it.
Will it work for you? Probably not. But that's my confession.
Um, the Dollaly Lama, as you know, is very old. He's uh he's about 90 now, and
he's planning to reincarnate because that's what your dolly llamas do. Uh,
but he wants to make uh one thing clear. It's not up to China who is
reincarnation is. So China has already claimed that only they will be the ones
to judge who the new Daly Lama is. Now the political part of that is that you
know China wants to dominate Tibet and so they don't want a new Daly Lama who's
too popular or too political. So they want to they want to pick their own.
But the Daly Lama says no no China cannot pick my reincarnation.
Um he he he wants to say that only his trust can. I don't know what that means.
So I guess there's some process where the Tibetans pick their own reincarnation
for the Daly Lama. I don't know. But uh I want to get in on this.
Um, can I also designate who picks my reincarnation
or is this limited only to the Daly Lama? Because I kind of like where this
is heading. I'd I'd like to put it in my my estate plan that there's a a
committee committee of five people that would get to decide who my reincarnation is,
which to me would be hilarious, especially if my reincarnation didn't want the job.
Well, looks like you're the new Scott Adams. What?
I don't want to be the new Scott Adams. Well, I'm sorry. The reincarnation committee has chosen you.
You're the new one. I saw a uh quote by Zubie this morning on X that I like. He
said uh people who think life is a zero someum game are dangerous to be around.
That really sums up a lot, doesn't it? The people who think life is a zero
someum game are dangerous to be around. Do you know who thinks that? socialists.
Do you know who else thinks that? The people who chant death to America.
Now, I'm no geopolitical expert, but it seems to me that if you're chanting
death to America, you're not thinking of a win-win scenario. All right. Well,
you'll you'll die and then we'll do great. So, we're both winners. No, no,
no. I think um you should stay away from people who think life is a zero sum game.
Some would say that I got cancelled for saying something very similar, but that would be unfair.
Um well, Jerome Powell uh was giving a talk at some event and he he was saying
that the uh the economy is looking pretty good. Inflation's close to 2%,
core inflation 2.7, unemployment 4.2. Not terrible numbers. You know, they're
not the best, but they're not bad. The economy is looking good.
And then separately, other experts are saying that the stock market is at
all-time high, I guess. And uh that can only be because the market has sort of
priced in the uncertainty over tariffs. And by priced in I mean is treating it
like it's no price at all basically. So that's what's happening. Um and
Powell says he expects to see higher inflation over the summer. Why would
that be? Is that because he thinks the tariffs will kick in and that'll create
some some inflation we haven't seen yet? Maybe. Maybe. Uh what does President
Trump think about that? Well, he called uh Jerome Powell a quote
 How would you like to wake up every day
and the and the most important person in the world, the president of the United States
is coming up with brand new insults for you?
That must be weird. Anyway, the uh the P Diddy verdict,
we're getting close. Uh, apparently of the multiple counts,
there was one that the jury could not decide on, and that was the big one, the RICO con, you know, racketeering
conspiracy one, and the judge is apparently going to send them back to
try to get a unanimous decision. Now, we assume that the holdouts are probably the ones
who don't want to convict, but I don't know that we know that.
I think it's just an assumption because um it looks like they have a decision on
sex trafficking and on the charge of trafficking to engage in prostitution,
two counts a piece. And those decisions have been made
um which I think we assume means guilty, right? But we don't know for sure. So,
uh, Trey Gouty was explaining on Fox News yesterday that, uh, trying to get a
RICO conviction is really, really hard because juries don't fully understand
all the predicates and the the nuance of that law.
But it's easier to say, um, did you transport somebody for sex? You know,
it's more of a yes no situation. So, I didn't realize this, but um the
Diddy defense didn't put on any uh any witnesses.
Now, that presumably means that they were depending on the prosecution not
making the case, which um sort of looks like,
you know, maybe they made the right the wrong play, but I doubt there were u
there were many witnesses that would got to say he was innocent. I don't know.
But uh Diddy's defense was basically that everything was
um voluntary and you know just good fun among adults. I don't think any of you
think that's true, but we'll see. I would say the odds are that Denny is
going to spend at least 10 years in jail. Um we'll see. CBS
allegedly has settled the lawsuit that Trump had against them for their uh
alleged um inappropriate edits of Kla Harris back in October of last year. And as you
know, they edited for conciseness and clarity. That's what CBS would say. And
what Trump would say is they made her dumb answer look like it wasn't so dumb,
which is interfering with the election. And uh he sued. Now, I feel like lawyers
would say that he never would have prevailed in this lawsuit except that
the entity Paramount is trying to get government approval for a big merger and
that might be on hold. So, I don't know if this is a good
indication of what the law, you know, is or should be or what justice is, but
Trump won $16 million, it looks like, assuming that that gets finalized. Now,
that's on top of, you might remember ABC News settled with Trump for $15 million
that went to the Trump Presidential Library for their their statements that he
considered defamatory. And I believe that Paramount has made the same offer
that the money will not go to Trump, it will go to his library. So apparently Trump found a way to fund
his his presidential library which is suing the fake news that have been the
bane of his existence for 10 years and he's making the fake news pay for his
presidential library. Now on one hand
you might say to yourself, "Oh well they they found a clever way to not pay Trump
any money." But Trump doesn't really need the money, does he? I mean, not at
the these amounts, but he definitely needs money for his presidential library. So, if you ask me, that's like
winning twice. Once is winning the lawsuit, but twice
is getting your your fake news enemies to pay for your presidential library that will last forever. Now, that's
that's funny. I mean, that's just good stuff. And uh you might remember that Meta paid
uh reportedly $25 million to settle a Trump lawsuit
um over suspending him um when they had him suspended on
Facebook. So that would and I don't think that 25 million went to the
presidential library, but it'd be funnier if it did. It's just that, you
know, Facebook is not exactly the fake news. It's just funnier if the fake news
pays for his library. To me, that's just just perfect.
So, I've got a observation and maybe you can add to this, but if
you notice that the uh the anti-Trump press
um has started to use his his branding and his nicknames. So even when CNN or MSNBC talk about the
uh legislation, they also call it the big beautiful bill, although its name is now changed
because I think Schuber introduced a a name change. So it's not technically one
big beautiful bill. That's what it was. Um, but is it my imagination
or did Trump get everybody to finally just surrender to his branding ideas and
that when he brands something, everybody just uses his nickname and they they
don't they don't push back too hard anymore. It's like, yeah, all right, it's a big beautiful bill.
Likewise, uh, alligator Alcatraz. Now, that's not one that Trump invented.
He just sort of adopted it and boosted it. But it's not my imagination
that CNN and MSNBC also call it Alligator Alcatraz, right? So, they've
sort of accepted that branding as well. Um, and then of course he's calling uh
Zoran Mani, the guy running for mayor in New York, communist. Um, I think so far mostly just the right
is adopting that. And then he he he calls Powell too late. Is that what he
calls Powell? Jerome Powell, the Fed chair. Too late, Powell.
I don't think that one's quite stuck yet. But it does feel to me that Trump's
branding is so strong that even the you know even the news that you think is
fake news just sort of accepts it at this point.
Um, MSNBC was uh looking at some article from
Playbook uh publication Playbook and uh was
wondering if the alligator Alcatraz um play by the Republicans is just a
trap to paint Democrats as the open border party. What do you think? Do you
think alligator Alcatraz is by design? not accidentally. But is it
by design that the Republicans really want the the critics to argue against
deportations basically or against strong borders?
I don't know that that's intentionally what they're doing, but it that's what's
happening. But but to me, it's more of a trap that they set for themselves.
Is it really the Republicans setting the trap when the Democrats have promoted
open borders? You know, they don't they typically don't say they're promoting open borders, but everybody could see
it. So, I would say it's more likely that uh the Democrats created their own
trap and then fell into their own trap, which is being against border security.
Anyway, um Joy Reid, predictably, you know, the fired ex-host of MSNBC,
Joy Reid, um she says that Trump has constructed quote concentration camps to
deport brown people. Do you think that'll stick? It might.
I could uh easily imagine other people saying, "I told you he was going to form
concentration camps for brown people, and there it is." But of course, it's really just a convenience for stuff they
were doing anyway, which is deporting. They're they're not planning that people
will stay there. It's sort of where they go while they're waiting to be deported.
Um so CNN uh their host said that uh the end of
USAID the program that Doge targeted for elimination and now um got rolled into
the state department. So Rubio is keeping you know some of its functions but not most of it. But CNN is talking
about it as though it will lead to the death of 14 million people
because 14 million people will die without the USID funding. Do you believe
that? Well, they also had former USID
administrator Samantha Power, who's now fired, and she says that uh it could
kill 12 million people. So somewhere between 12 and 14 million
people will be killed by this Trump policy to decrease US ID funding. Um
what do you think of that? And they claim that one of the entities
alone saved 25 million lives and that they will stop selling that they will no
longer be saving 25 million people because of funding. Well, let me put the
Dilbert filter on this. So, this is a perfect situation that you might see in
a Dilbert comic where the staff member or the manager claims that they had
saved a bunch of money and then if something changes even though it might
be made up in hyperbole like oh that change means that we'll lose all that
money or people will die. Do you think do you think that the 14
million people was documented so well that we could tell that when the funding
got cut that 14 million people start dropping dead within 12 months?
Does it seem likely that the people who were tracking that stuff could tell you
who is going to die? It doesn't seem super likely to me, but
um did you know, here's some context for you.
Did you know, at least the unusual Wales is reporting this on X, that uh the G7
countries, you know, the big industrial countries, the G7, um collectively are cutting globally by
28% for the coming year. Now, that's according to Axios.
So, does that seem like the entire world is going to be killing 14 million a piece?
So if the US doing its cuts, um if the US is going to be responsible
for killing 14 million people, but the entire G7 is also massively reducing
their global aid, don't they also kill certain number themselves? So would you
say it's 14 million times 7? or you know maybe their their funding
was not as big but uh so that would very quickly get you to a number like a 100
million people are dying because of cuts in foreign aid. Does that sound even a little bit
true to you? Do you believe that that you know five years from now we'll look
back and say h 100red million people died because the G7 cut their global
aid. It doesn't seem likely to me but let me give you a little additional con
context. I went to Grock the AI and I said, "How many people in the world are
currently starving as in not enough food, you know, daily?"
Um, what do you think the answer is? The number of people in the world today
who don't have enough food, which would suggest they also don't have enough health care and don't have clean water
and all the rest. The answer is 733 million.
Did you know that? 733 million.
So, I would like to add the following horrible thoughts. Are you ready for
horrible thoughts? Things you're not supposed to say in public. That's my
specialty. All right. Here's something you're not supposed to say in public.
Happiness depends happiness depends on not knowing too
much about the people you could have saved if you were willing to make yourself
less happy doing it. And there's no way around it.
There's no way around it. The only way you can pursue happiness is by
consciously ignoring all the people who will die. 14 million of them, maybe a
100 million. Um, they will die unless you stop your enjoyment and give them
all your extra money. Now, does anybody say that out loud? No.
You've got this whole industry of people, you know, which I'm part of, trying to tell people how to be happy in
their lives, but they conveniently conveniently they all leave out this
most important variable. You have to consciously ignore the people who are
suffering that you could have helped. You know, even in your small way, you could have
helped them, but you didn't. instead you decided to live your own life and you
know make sure your kids have everything they need and all that. So that's the
first thing. Are you ready for the even more controversial second thing?
Can you handle this? It's going to get worse. All right, here
it is. Did you know that if you were to rank the countries by economics, you know,
the ones that are making the most money, US and European countries, etc., and
then you were to rank them by reproductive
success, meaning are you making enough children to replace yourself plus extra. You
would find that those are the opposite. you would find that the people who are reproducing at the highest rates are
almost entirely the countries that need our aid.
Let me say that again. The countries that have the highest fertility rate and are making the most
children are the same countries that need our help. And how do we afford helping um
yeah Africa and other places? How do we afford that? We afford it by reducing our own
reproductive um situation.
The reason the reason that Americans and Europeans can afford to buy food
is because they don't have 10 kids. If we if we all had 10 kids, how much money
could we give to other countries for foreign aid? None. none. So, it's not a
question of uh we have everything we want, so we'll give a little extra to the countries that need it because
they're suffering. We are literally deciding to have fewer children so that
we can afford to pay the people who are having more children. We're literally funding our own future
destruction. How about that? Do you ever think of it that way? We we always look at the money
or we track the number of people who were starving or the number of people who maybe were saved. But shouldn't we
be tracking reproduction? Because the countries that are reproducing the most are winning.
That's winning. If you have the most children and your
your country, no matter how poor, ends up with the most extra people at
the end of the year and and they convince some sucker country that they
could guilt them into paying to not have their own children because you can't
afford it, but to pay a lot extra so that other people could have more children.
That's a frame, isn't it? Aren't you glad you watched today?
Because that that's the most provocative thing you'll hear today uh anywhere that
we should be measuring reproductive success. That's the ultimate goal of of
every species. For every species, the ultimate top level goal is the highest
level of reproduction. because if you don't do that, somebody's
going to out produce you and eventually conquer you and you know, so that's
where it's heading. So, we have to create the fiscal and it's worse than that. It It's not that
you're just It's worse than that. Remember I I said that um the G7
countries would have to give up their own reproductive potential so they had enough money to
pay the people who were having tons of babies is worse than that. We're not
just giving up our current expensing. We're driving up our debt to the point
where we're literally destroying our own civilization because we can't pay the debt. So, we're not just giving our
extra to other countries that have higher reproductive rates. We're
guaranteeing the destruction of our entire civilization to help fund other countries have more
babies. That's actually happening. Nobody talks about it that way, right? We always we
always measure some other variables, but those are the big ones. All right.
Well, the uh conversation about Medicaid cuts in the big beautiful bill
um seems to come down to the Democrats are claiming that the cuts will kick off
kick people off the program so they won't have medical coverage.
Whereas, um the Republicans are saying no, it's only tightening the requirements. It's
getting people who should not be having it off their, you know, undocumented people and uh getting the lazy people
who should be working a job off the couch and so that they could qualify for it. Um I don't know that either of those
is exactly the right frame because it's probably something in between. But I'll
tell you what you can't do. You cannot forever increase programs where you're
transferring money from one group to another. So, will it be a giant hardship
for some people who were getting Medicaid and now they won't? Probably it
will be a giant hardship. But again, is that your problem?
Why is it Why is it my problem? Why do I have to pay for people I don't know and
who are not working or not citizens? Why why do I have to pay for them?
So, I would love them to do well, but is it my job? Is it my job to take
care of the people who can't get off the couch or here illegally? I don't know.
I'd say no. I'd say that's not my job and I don't feel guilty about that.
Well, CNN, as biased as they might be, I feel like
they are um moving toward the middle. You know, that that was their ambition,
at least the management's ambition was to try to move toward the middle. Um,
and I'm seeing small signals, maybe big bigger than small, that they're actually
trying to do that. For example, um CNN had Jamie Rascin on. I think it
was uh Casey Hunt was the uh the host and
he he was uh he was complaining about all the bad things in the big beautiful bill. So Rascin is their designated
liar. He's he's the one they bring on the Democrats. He's he's the Democrat
that will say the thing that would just be too embarrassing for regular people to say. He will just tell any ridiculous
lie in public. He's one of several people that they use for that. So after
he'd been maligning the big beautiful bill, Casey Hunt said, "Is there
anything is there anything in this bill that you would support?" and he's like, "Oh, uh,
you know, changes the subject." And then she gives him a specific. She goes, "Uh,
what about no tax on tips?" Now, suppose you're the prominent
designated liar for the Democrats and CNN asks you if you are okay with not
taxing tips. What exactly is a Democrat supposed to
say since the, you know, their big the complaints about the Democrats is that
they stopped supporting the working people? Well, the people who work for TIPS are the working people. It's
exactly the people that they haven't been serving and it's the reason for their demise.
Um, and so what did Jamie Raskin say? Did he
support the no taxes and tips? And he said, I'm doing a long pause because he did a
long pause. Uh, I don't know. I haven't looked at
it. I haven't looked at it.
I I just told you what it is. It's no tax on tips. What part of that do you not understand? I haven't looked at it.
Now, that was a weak ass answer, but it's not about Jamie Rascin, who can be
depended on to lie about every topic. That's just sort of what he does.
But do you think do you think CNN would have asked that question
during Trump's first term? Because it was a really good question. The good question was, it's got 25
topics in it or more. the bill. Is there anything you think is reasonable? That
is a darn good middle of the road serves the viewers kind of question. So
that's my first example where it looked like CNN was trying to find, you know,
this middle unbiased reporting place.
But um we also talked the other day about Spur Kish on CNN who you know
somewhat um I guess many of you would have been surprised by it but I wasn't that he
gave a fairly uncritical objective
um analysis of Trump having an amazing few weeks and he didn't he didn't try to
say but you know he's also Hitler. He just said that Trump had an amazing successful two weeks. Would you have
seen that during his first term, you know, you could argue he didn't have two weeks
like that, but I don't know, maybe from Spurish. Um, and then Harry Anton, their data
guy, the guy who talks about the latest polling, he I won't say he's pro-Trump,
but when the numbers go proTrump, which by the way they did recently,
he he reports it enthusiastically. So he doesn't say, "Well, for a Hitler,
we don't know why he's so popular." He just uncritically
tells you that the polling looks really good. So he was uh Harry was just
talking about how uh Trump according to the latest survey is the most beloved
the most loved Republican president in all of history and he beat Ronald Reagan.
Let me say that again. CNN Harry Anton reported enthusiastically
that Trump is the most loved Republican president in history. Now, obviously
mostly loved by Republicans, but still he beat Reagan.
And they they reported that without again without saying stuff like, "Well,
I don't know why so many people like Hillary." They simply reported
that his popularity is through the roof at the moment. And then all of you know that Scott
Jennings is uh getting a lot of airtime on CNN and does an unusually
you know great job of presenting the other side. So um do you remember when
Steve Cortez was in that role I would say in CNN and then Steve Cortez got
sort of pushed out by CNN. Do you know why Steve Cortez got uh pushed out of a
CNN? Because he was doing too good of a job.
I think he was just a little bit too good and he was especially attacking him on the um fine people hoax, you know,
the Charlottesville fine people hoax. So they they couldn't handle Steve Cortez,
but at the moment Scott Jennings is doing a similarly amazing job. Um and
they seem to be happy with that at least you know from what we can observe. So
see then still biased we assume but uh there
there are a number of bright spots in the show and uh keep an eye on that.
Well, um I don't know about your town, but uh I got a little inside
um scoop on my town. And apparently the people who live and work around here who
are not documented citizens of this country have definitely changed their
routines. So it used to be that if you were here and you were undocumented, you would
just sort of live your life like everyone else. If you wanted to go someplace, you went someplace, you go to
work, etc. But I am hearing uh that the undocumented people are only
going out of their house if they have to. So that would include going to work,
but they're not spending a lot of time outside the house because of the uh ICE
news is is really putting a chill on on the risk. So, the one thing I was uh not
really expecting is that uh Trump has done so well on the border closing and
ICE has done so well in promoting what they're doing that uh the undocumented
people are feeling a lot of pressure and they don't want to, you know, be driving
a car and run a run a stop sign because they'd be shipped back to they'd be
shipped over to alligator Alcatraz. So the uh the lifestyle of the people who
are here who are not citizens is really compacted.
Uh and I would bet that that's the same where you are. Now I'm not saying that's good or bad. You can put your own
judgment on it. I will tell you that if you don't know anybody in that community, it's a lot
easier to be, you know, cold and calculated and saying, "We're going to ship you back." If you do, you probably
have had the feeling that many of us had, at least in California, this is true, that we really like them. They're
in many cases, they're just tremendous people, and they're just working hard trying to improve their life. and you
you can find a lot to relate relate. Um but whether or not they're awesome
people um this gets back to my earlier comment. At what point am I morally obligated to
transfer my wealth to other people because they're awesome and they are awesome and I I do have genuine empathy
for the people who are being affected by this. It's doesn't look fun and going
back to their home country doesn't look like a bargain. But is it my job
to keep all of them alive and you know bring more in? I'd say no. So this gets
back to the only way you can live a happy life
is by intentionally ignoring the suffering of you know a billion other people. A billion. You have to ignore a
billion people struggling. Otherwise, you can't be happy yourself. There's no way to get there.
All right. So, that may be the same where you live.
Um, borders are Tom Holman. Uh, according to the Gateway Pundit, um,
he said that, uh, the GOJ is looking into AOC
because she was employing an illegal alien on her staff and she was helping
um, undocumented illegal people evade ICE. So apparently the accusation or
allegation is that uh she was publicly telling people how to avoid getting
picked up by ICE, which I believe would be interfering with law enforcement and
a crime. And if she knowingly was hiring an illegal alien or employing on her
staff, that must be some kind of a crime. I don't know what. But I'll tell you, um,
Democrats might be feeling like it was a mistake to lawfare President Trump for
years cuz if he won, he's going to lawfare the out of
him in revenge. Now, he doesn't have to say it's revenge. He can just say no one
is above the law. Something they introduced. No one's above the law.
So, I have again mixed feelings in a normal world. Um, I'm not sure that AOC
has gone far enough that, you know, putting her in jail would make sense to me. I mean, I get I get what the problem
is. I understand the allegations, but I'm not sure that was, you know, worth
too much resource to go after it. But these days, because the Democrats
were so lawfare wild against Trump, if Trump's administration decides to go a
little bit hard on lawfare against the prominent members,
I feel like they brought that on themselves. It feels like, again, it's not a case of
a Republican setting a trap for the Democrats. This would be a trap that the Democrats set for themselves. So the way
they set it for themselves is by going too far with the law affair against
Trump, which probably helped him get elected. And then it pretty much guaranteed that
he wasn't going to be generous when it came to looking at their own legal problems. So was that a trap that the
Republicans set? No. That was a trap that the Democrats fully created on
their own and they're getting the somewhat obvious outcome of all that.
So, we'll see where that goes. I don't think AOC's going to jail seems
unlikely, but the fact that they're even investigating it, that should scare.
All right. Uh, so the big beautiful bill was passed by the Senate, but because of
our weird lawmaking process, it has to go back to the House, the House, which passed the original
version. And now they're going to look at the modified, greatly modified
version that comes out of the Senate, and they have to vote again whether they accept the Senate's modifications.
Now, apparently some of those modifications were pretty big and not
every member of the House Republicans are going to be for it. They might have to be uh coerced.
But Russ uh vote uh who is part of the Trump
administration and budgets especially he says that part of the plan is to explain
to people especially the house who has to approve the big beautiful bill to
explain the longer term plan to reduce the deficit. So I feel like he's sort of accepting
that this one, the big beautiful bill, might not be a deficit fix strategy at
all. Although there's, you know, disagreement about whether it will I I think uh
Scott Bend is saying that it will improve the economy. the big beautiful
bill will it'll goose the economy so much that will make more um money in
receipts for the IRS than uh if we didn't do it and therefore it would be
reducing the deficit. Do you believe it? Well, I don't think any of us understand
what's in that big beautiful bill. So maybe
but I wouldn't bet my life on it. However, um if they make the argument,
um you know, it sounds like where Rust vote is coming from, but I I don't want to put words in his mouth, but what it
sounds like is that he thinks the best way to sell the big beautiful bill would
be to sort of acknowledge that that's not where the big deficit reduction is going to come from, but rather it's just
a bunch of stuff Republicans want. and you know we'd be happy or
Republicans would be happy if they got it. So that might be a good approach but
uh Scott Bent is saying directly that it should make a big difference in reducing
the budget or reducing the deficit. So you could pick either one of those
and it would give you a reason to be for it. I don't know. I'm not sure I buy any of
that but that that would be the argument. Um, apparently, uh, Speaker
Johnson says that the House will vote on it maybe Thursday. So, they're still
rushing to try to get it done by the 4th of July, but um, you've got a number of people who
are going to be working against it. So, Marjorie Taylor Green thinks it's going
to bust the budget. Um, and she she wasn't happy with the bill.
Um Andy Ogles from Tennessee, he called the
Senate bill a dud that quote guts key Trump provisions. I don't know which
ones he was referring to. Chip Roy of Texas um he's not happy about the bill's
treatment of clean energy tax credits. He would like that to be more aggressive.
He says it's a it's a deal killer. Um, if they don't do that, then uh,
Representative Ralph Norman, he said they should send it back to the Senate and leave town.
Uh, Representative Valadeo, California said in a social media post, "I've been
clear from the start that I will not support a final reconciliation bill that makes harmful cuts to Medicaid." So,
there are at least six Republican nos um, at this point.
Um, but here's what's interesting according to me.
Why would any Republican vote for the bill either in the Senate or the House?
Because it feels like everybody's a little bit unhappy with it. They have different reasons, but everybody's got
their little complaint. Uh, I would argue that at this point the
Congress is doing nothing but trying to avoid being targeted by Trump.
So if you think that any of these votes on the big beautiful bill are going to be based on the details of what's in the
big beautiful bill, it's not. We are in a world where that thing we
call our uh democratic republic, you know, whatever our system of government
is, it's entirely broken. And right now, the Republicans in the House and the
Senate are simply just trying to keep their jobs by not passing off Trump.
They are not voting on what would be good for the people.
They're not. It's not, it's just not even a variable. They are not involved in what's good for the country. They are
only involved in trying to avoid Trump's wrath because he says he's going to go
after him. But interestingly, um, since Musk has targeted the people
who vote for it and Trump has targeted the people who are going to vote against
it, you have this weird situation where the Republicans have created a trap for
themselves. The trap for themselves is that if they vote for it,
Musk will try to take them out through funding a primary challenge.
If they vote against it, Trump will try to take them out. So, they have two ways
to lose and no way to win. And who created that situation? It
wasn't the Democrats. There there was not one Democrat involved in that. But the Republicans
have created a trap that they can't get out of. There's there's no way that this
works out for the Republicans in Congress. They get they get to choose
which way they destroy themselves, voting for it or voting against it. So
what happens? Well, under those situations, if I could predict, I would
predict it will get delayed. What would you do if you knew that no
matter what you do, it's going to be bad for you? You would look to delay it. So,
uh I would not be surprised if instead of it getting, you know, approved,
although I think there's a high chance it'll be improved approved on, uh Thursday, there's a pretty high chance
because going against Trump is certain death
politically. going against Musk is probably a real big problem.
But they might judge that Musk is that Musk is not as scary as Trump or would
not be as effective at taking their jobs and they might be right about that. So
that thing called our democratic republic, the system that you think you're in where you vote for your
representatives and then the representatives take your interests and you know try to negotiate them with the
other elected officials. Nothing like that is happening. Instead, we've
created the system where they're just saying who is scarier, Musk or Trump?
What the kind of a political system is that?
Well, no worse than what we had.
Um, I guess one of the big changes in the uh big beautiful bill would be to
instead of being a Joe Biden and forgiving everybody's student debts,
um the reconciliation bill will make it uh put more pressure on people to pay
back their student debts basically, but it will eliminate all the all the ways they could do it and uh make that a
little bit of a tighter process. So, that's a big deal, which will obviously
cost them some votes with students who have loans.
Um, let's see what else happened
at the moment. According to The Hill, it's reporting on a NPR PBS News Maris
poll. Uh, Republicans are more popular than
they've been in a long time. So the Republicans in Congress
uh are up to a 36% of registered voters approve of the job Republicans are doing
and in Congress, not just Trump. The highest level recorded since they
started asking the question in 2011. So even though the big beautiful bill is
not passed, it would appear that Republican voters are liking the effort.
Now, like I say, it's a it's a totally bastardized sick process, you know, where they're
just trying to keep their jobs and deciding if Musk or Trump is more dangerous to their their profession.
But apparently the public is happy that they're fighting it out and that there's a lot of stuff in the bill that
Republicans like. But it's not like uh all politicians are
getting more popular because the uh Democrats are down 12 points in
popularity according to the same poll since February February of 2024.
So now they're down to 27%. Uh, I think they're doing a good job in Congress, the Democrats.
All right. Um, I saw that Tesla stock was up a little bit after it had been
drifting down because of Musk and Trump uh fighting over the big beautiful bill.
And uh, today Musk said on X quote, "So tempting to escalate this. So so
tempting, but I will refrain from now for now. So,
um, it could be that because Elon looks like he's going to moderate his reaction
to it that people are saying, "Oh, it's time to jump back in that Tesla stock."
That might be what's happening, but there are a lot of variables there, too. Meanwhile, speaking of Musk, uh, I saw a
Mario Knoff post, who, by the way, you should all be following. If you're not
following Mario Novel on X, you're missing a lot of good uh
independent reporting about the news. Um he reports that uh I guess he the
source here was breaking defense that SpaceX
uh has a contract with um with Space Force
to or with our military to build 480 plus military satellites for a new
network that would be just for the military of just satellites.
and it's a gigantic deal. Um, the details are classified,
but doesn't it seem to you that the government needs Tesla or the government
needs Musk as much as Musk needs the government? It's hard for me to see that
uh all the rhetoric, especially what Trump is using about, you know, maybe
they should look at cutting his funding and maybe they should look at deporting him.
We assume that that's just talk and that, you know, as people pointed out to
me, Trump didn't start the fight, at least not directly.
He's just responding to Musk's provocations. So, I I'll accept that. I I'll accept
that it does seem inappropriate the things that Trump is saying about Musk.
I I don't like the fact that he even teased about deporting him.
I don't think you should even tease about that. But it is true that Trump didn't start
it and that he hits back as hard as he gets hit. And if you were to say that's
no harder than Musk was hitting him first, I can see that. So I will I will
grudgingly say that in this one situation going too far might be
predictably just ordinary Trump stuff and doesn't mean much.
Well, in other news, um the White House says it's close to
well as a deal with Israel for a 60-day ceasefire with Hamas, but Hamas has not
approved it. I don't know what the odds are that Hamas would say yes. And um I
don't think Hamas wants a temporary ceasefire. I think they only want to say
yes to something that would end the fighting entirely. But it might be that the temporary ceasefire is how you
start. I'm no expert. But um the fact that Israel has a
ceasefire plan and the White House likes it, that's not nothing.
And it seems to me that Trump would like to follow up on what looked like the
best month that any president ever had by adding a Gaza ceasefire. and maybe
maybe eventually a peace deal um to that part of the world because that would
unlock the Abraham Accords. It would allow other countries to join and he
could just be rolling up the victories like crazy. So, he's already in um I would say
uncontested best president ever territory. Now obviously Democrats would disagree
but in my opinion he is now already Trump is in best president of all time.
To me it looks that way. I mean we haven't seen anything like this in our
lifetime and before that I wouldn't know. But uh if he got Gaza too.
Oh my goodness. And it it kind of makes sense now that
Trump was supporting Netanyahu about his his uh court situation. It it could be
that this is just Trump being Trump where if he needs somebody to do something that maybe is not comfortable,
such as a ceasefire with Hamas, that he might make sure that they got a win for
it. And the win would be that he's backing Netanyahu really hard and saying
great things about him. So that might have been necessary to get Israel to
say, "Yeah, we could work on a ceasefire even if it's not what they wanted to do."
But if Trump gets set, um I think that
you know unless something weird happened after that, he would be just
unambiguously history will record him as our most effective, most important president. Um
probably he's already there, but man, just imagine adding Gaza to your win
list. And the timing is right. I mean, they must have war exhaustion on both sides
at this point. We'll see. Meanwhile, Iran's president
said that they're going to suspend Iran will suspend their cooperation with the
IAEA, which is the group that would inspect their domestic nuclear power programs to
make sure it wasn't being weaponized. Now, here's my question. If Iran is
going to suspend their cooperation with the IAEA,
are they not signaling that they plan to build a nuclear weapon?
Because if they plan to just have nuclear domestic power,
it seems like they would sign up for saying, "All right, all right, we'll definitely have the IAEA investigate
because that's that would make everybody comfortable." So, they're one of two possibilities
when they say they're, you know, not going to cooperate with them. They either have a death wish because this
would kill them all basically if they just started rebuilding their nuclear program,
the weaponized part. Um, or is it a negotiating chip? Could it be that Iran
is cleverly sort of in a Trump-like way creating an asset that they will later
trade away? So for example, the asset they've created is that they would not cooperate
with the IAEA. They just created that that asset just
by saying they won't do it. Now they have something to trade. So they'll say, "All right, all right.
If you drop the sanctions, we might change our mind about these inspectors."
So, could be that they're just crazy, you know, crazy people who want to have
a death wish, but it could be just a negotiating chip. We'll see.
All right. I have a suggestion about how to minimize mom Donnie. Zoran mom
Donnie. As you know, and I often talk about it, uh the facts don't matter so
much as the persuasion when it comes to politics. It's how you feel about something. And when Mamani says stuff
like, "I'm going to work on your affordability." The average voter might not look that
deep into it to find out that there's any downside to that and say, "Affordability?
I like that. Yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't mind a little affordability.
So, if you're going to attack him, it would be hard to attack him on policy because voters are not really engaged at
the policy level beyond affordability. Sure.
So, how could you attack somebody who is so good at what he does? He's really good at social media. He's good at
interviews, etc. Well, I have a suggestion.
He has a creepy smile. One of the things that makes him popular
is that he always seems smiling. I believe that Trump, especially Trump,
could reframe his smile as a sign of being disingenuous and a scam artist.
Because the smile to me sometimes looks natural,
but I can easily convince myself that it's creepy.
So imagine if you will that Trump started saying the communist with a
creepy smile. Do you feel that? The communist with a
creepy smile. Because if you're a Democrat
and somebody says some stuff that you like to hear, oh, affordability, I like that.
Are you going to feel the same if it gets branded as having a creepy smile?
That creepy smile thing. You can feel it, can't you? Yeah. You
tell. Yeah. Creepy copy smile. The communist part
might not be enough to stop him from taking office. There might be enough voters are like, "Ah, every the
Republicans call everybody a communist, so I'll just ignore that part." But creepy smile,
that's a death blow. That's a kill shot. So, if it were me and I were running
against him, I would say, "Don't fall for the communist with a creepy smile.
He he's he's up to no good. He you know he's he's not your friend
because everybody would interpret creepy smile in their own way which is really
good persuasion. You don't want you don't want to tell them what to think. You just want to guide them into an area
that they weren't thinking about which is that his smile looks disingenuous
and there's something off about him. Now, I'm just watching the comments to
see if that's hitting. Doesn't that feel like they hit you right in the stomach
as opposed to talking about policies? You can feel that, can you? The creepy
smile. You would never get that out of your head. Creepy communist smile.
So, that's my suggestion. All right. Uh, I would also refer to him as the
shirtless guy with the flag at the uh at the ICE protests.
Do you remember the iconic uh guy who had a mask on so you couldn't see his
face? But he was shirtless and he was standing on top of burning cars and he was waving the Palestinian flag.
If I were running against him, I might sort of tongue and cheek suggest that
that was him because the guy's wearing a mask and it looks like a, you know, a skinny young guy
just like him. Anyway, um,
so the White House is working on a way to exclude undocumented illegal aliens
from the US census. Stephen Miller is talking about that. Now, the reason to do that and the
reason they would want to do an immediate new census um would be that uh if you could exclude
the non-citizens in California alone, it would it would remove four house seats because the
number of representatives you get depends on the population of your state. So if they reduce the number of people
who are counted in terms of your population, which is what a census would
do if they didn't count the undocumented people, then um it would force the
system to reduce the number of um representatives. Now, if they could get away with that,
that would be a super clever political move, but I feel like that probably
would not work. The one time they tried it, a uh federal
judge blocked it. But now that the Supreme Court has said that federal
judges can't block stuff, um they might just do another executive
order and see what happens. I guess it would probably be class action suits and
stuff, but uh maybe maybe that lane is open that they they could get away with
that. I'm betting against it. I don't think they'll get away with it
because it's a little too close to a constitutional question that might be
black and white. So, I'm no expert. Meanwhile, the libs of Tik Tok is
telling us that Stanford Medicine is going to end their transgender surgery
for minors because of pressure from the Trump administration. So we keep hearing more stories about
that. Meanwhile, um,
uh, chairman Jim Jordan, according to Politico, is asking for documents, uh,
from P and from Brown universities.
Um, and they're they're probing into seeing if they did price fixing that the uh the
Ivy League schools may be coordinating their tuition
so that you can't, you know, easily go to the cheaper Ivy League school. So, if
they find that that's true, that that's going to be a lot of pressure on the Ivy
League schools if they were actually colluding to keep their prices high.
maybe. Um I imagine that they wouldn't be asking for documents about it unless
they had some whistleblower who said that. Meanwhile, the FBI, according to the
Epoch Times, um has charged four Californians with
the largest ever COVID tax fraud scheme. They allegedly stole $93 million in
COVID tax credits. Um, so
do you ever wonder where all the money went just in general? You know, we we had
this rich country and then suddenly we've got $37 37 trillion in debt and
you said to yourself, "What? Where did all that money go?"
Well, my guess is that something like a I don't know, half a trillion dollars a
year just goes to fraud because we're bad at checking where our money goes.
But maybe that'll turn around. In other news, this didn't happen right away, but
I just saw it today. Did you know that Trump had authorized the building of a new Air Force jet, which will be the
F47, which is funny because he's the 47th president. Um, and Boeing won that
competition, and in 3 years or so, they might have a new a new jet, the F47.
Over in China, China has uh put on a soccer competition with just robots.
Now, uh, those robots were not very good at playing soccer.
So, it it didn't look like it was the best state-of-the-art robots, but they
played soccer. Um, it was compared to a five or six year old child playing
soccer, but they did run after the ball and kick it toward the goal and, you
know, tried to block it if it was coming the wrong way. So, there are now AI
controlled robots that play soccer poorly, but that'll be better by next
year. All right, I'm going to give you a little micro lesson um that I know you
you need because many of you were criticizing me online
because you thought you had better information than I did about putting batteries and solar in the network. So,
um, I was criticizing Doug Bergam for saying that solar power doesn't work
when it's when it's nighttime. And I said, you know, it just makes you
feel it makes you look stupid if you don't acknowledge that there's batteries
in the network. So, the solar charges the batteries and then the batteries can run at night.
Now, people said, "Scott, you idiot. You fool. How do you not know
that it is uneconomical to put batteries and solar power into
the grid? How do you not know that? To which I say,
um, maybe you need a little update on your technology. So, that's what I'm
going to give you. Uh according to Grock,
how many of these uh solar powered and then battery, you
know, matched with batteries? How many of them are currently in the grid?
If it's uneconomical, then nobody would do it. Right.
Right. Nobody would do it if it's uneconomical. And so many people told me it's just never going to be economical.
Well, why are there 1,600 of them with 125 in construction around the world?
So, are you telling me that uh thousands thousands of different experts are
unaware of what you know that it would never make sense to build a solar solar
energy and add batteries to it? Why are they doing it if it's
uneconomical in every country? It's like all over the place. It's not just one country or anything. Um, and the US has
575 of them across seven major grids. Are you
telling me that all of those projects were uneconomical and the people who
built them didn't know it? Is that what you believe? Here's what you were trying
to tell me. You're trying to tell me, but Scott, the batteries will only last two to four
hours and they're only good for handling peak loads, right? Now, you're getting
really mad at me already, right? Because you're sure that I didn't know that.
No, I do know that. I do know that the current technology is that it's only
going to handle your peak periods. So, does that mean you shouldn't build it?
No. Obviously, it works out. Obviously, the economics do work. That's why
there's so many of them. So,
given that we're uh approaching the AI era, we're well, we're in the AI era.
And knowing that we need every bit of electricity we can do, do you think it's
a bad idea to have systems that can only do two to four hours of peak load? No,
that's not a bad idea. The the thing with energy that you need to know is
that more is better. And suppose it's the not the most economical way to do
it. Still do it. Still do it. We're not in a we're not in a place in history
where the only power that you add to the network is the most economical power.
Maybe there was a time when that made sense, but now we're in a place where if you can make any kind of electricity in
any way or you can help help the existing power plants get over a peak
period hump. If you can do anything with any technology that allows you to have
more electricity than you would have had otherwise, it probably is economical
because AI will, you know, be such a big uh, you know, a big money maker that
they're going to spend a lot of money to make sure they have power. Now, some of you said, "But Scott, you
know, what about the recycling of the batteries?" Well, that's that's changing quickly. the ability to recycle
batteries, the big batteries that are in the network. That's, you know, there are companies are working on that. Now, what
about the necessity of rare earth minerals to make batteries? Some people
said, "Scott, you fool. That would make us do all this illeg, you know, this
this mining that's bad for the environment and we don't have enough of the rare earth." to which I say this is
the reason that I read to you almost every day that there's a new laboratory
breakthrough in batteries and many of them are about not needing those critical minerals
or materials. So there's a whole bunch of stuff that's happening in the development of batteries that would make
them easier to recycle, last longer, and be cheaper. And remember, if you're
putting them in the network, they don't have to be lightweight. So, it doesn't have to be really light like it would in
a car. Uh they could be, you know, 10 times bigger than you think they ought
to be because it's just going to be sitting in the network somewhere. So, here's the next thing that my
critics got wrong. If it's true that that the only thing
that you'd be happy with is 16 hours of battery storage, we will have that
probably in 10 years. So that I I think uh Elon Musk was talking about that.
Musk was talking about building a gigafactory for solar in the United States.
And one of the commenters said, "Wait, what if you combined an AI data center
that that needs all this power with a uh solar powered, you know, battery battery
kind of network." and he winked, which suggests that that was uh on point
and that he's looking to use gigantic solar with batteries uh networks to
partially power the data centers. So, he might be looking to build that gigafactory right now. So, why would he
do that if it's not economical according to my critics?
Do you do you think that Elon Musk is not aware of the economics of solar
or batteries? Do do you think you know more about batteries and solar than Elon Musk does?
I'm pretty sure that he's going to be leaping into that business
and playing the long game. So in in somewhere in the 2030s,
it looks like uh batteries probably will be good enough that they can last for 16
hours and cheap enough so it makes sense to use them and easy enough to recycle
and easy enough to get the rare earth minerals because it wouldn't use many rare earth minerals. So
my critics also said, "Scott, you fool." Um, you know, even if you think that
this could work, solar is uh solar is not as good an idea as nuclear. That
nuclear would have better economics and produce, you know, more consistent base
load, doesn't have a nighttime problem. So solar, so nuclear is the way to go,
right? But do you see the inconsistency of
comparing nuclear to solar? Let me tell you, it's a timing thing. If I said to
you, start building your nuclear power plant today, how long do you think it would take you to get it done?
If you were to use existing technology to build a nuclear power plant,
would it take 20 years and cost $30 billion?
I don't know how long it would take. Do you know why nuclear is is so uh has
such a high potential? It's not because of the things we already know how to do. It's because
there's lot of work happening in developing nuclear so that it's a whole
different engineering situation and you can make them you know you can make them
easier, cheaper and safer. So, if you're going to allow that nuclear is the future, but you couldn't
do it today, you you kind of have to, you know, you're going to have to test a number of uh startups basically startups
who are trying to build nuclear power plants in the best way. And it's going
to be 10 years. It's going to be 10 years before you see
a bunch of nuclear power coming online. It's just going to take that long. So if
you're going to say that nuclear is the future but not what we have now but
rather what we can develop fairly quickly next few years then you should use the same analysis for batteries.
What we could do right now with batteries not ideal. You know you get
two to four hours of peak coverage in your network not too impressive. But if
we keep hammering at it and keep developing it and make sure that the market exists, what do you think
batteries are going to look like in 10 years? So
that's my micro lesson on batteries. Um, I hope that helped. All right.
And uh, Russia took full control of the Luhansk
region in Ukraine. Newsmax World is reporting, which uh tells you why Putin
is willing to keep fighting because he's nibbling more and more of Ukraine.
So, why would Putin want to want peace when he's still gaining territory?
So, that one's going to be a tough one. Uh
Blaze Media says uh that Cash Patel is his FBI is arresting a bunch of Chinese
spies that have been targeting US uh military people trying to convert them
to spies. How many spies do we have in this country? I don't know.
And then a new study says that senior citizens are going to marijuana in in
record numbers. Uh the use of cannabis by older adults has quadrupled.
And then there's a new study that says if you use a lot of cannabis um it will be bad for your memory, but
if you use a low dose, it might even improve your memory if you're a
middle-aged human. Do I believe that? No, not really.
But sounds good. All right, that's all I got for today. Sorry I ran
long. Um, I will talk to you all tomorrow, same time, same place. If
you're a local beloved subscriber, stay around because I'm going to go private
with locals right now for a very short moment. The rest of you, thanks for
joining. See you tomorrow.