Good to see you. Have you lost weight? You're looking great this morning. Come
on in. I got a show for you. It's just for you.
Just for you. Let's check your uh stock market first. Well, stock market is up.
Good. Good. People are feeling patriotic and all that.
All right. While you're streaming in, let me get my comments working on
locals. [Music]
[Music] Good morning everyone and welcome to the
highlight of human civilization. It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to try to take this experience up to levels that no one could possibly understand with their
tiny shiny human brains, all you need for that is
a copper mug or a glass of tankered shelter inside a canteen jug or flask vessel of any kind. Fill it with your
favorite liquid. I like coffee. and join me now for the unparalleled pleasure,
the dopamine hit of the day. The thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. That's
right. Go.
Oh, it's just as good as I imagined it would be.
Well, I wonder if there's any science that they didn't need to do. if they had
just asked Scott. Uh, oh, here's something from Aros University.
Um, the myth is busted. They say that men do not sleep through a baby crying
um more than a woman. Did Did any of you believe that men and
women have different ability to hear a crying baby? Well, I didn't doubt it, but I did
imagine that men are better at pretending to be asleep and not hearing a baby. It turns out that women still do
three times as much of the baby tending at night.
And uh much of that has to do with the fact that all men across the planet have
agreed. It's sort of a silent agreement we all have. Even if you don't have children, you know the agreement, right,
guys? You know what I'm talking about, right? That's right. As long as we all
pretend that men can't hear crying babies, we can continue to stay in bed while
your spouse goes off to check on the crying baby because she thinks you can't hear it and she doesn't want to wake you
up. So, shh, don't say anything. We're all
in this together, guys. Well, the Wall Street Journal was doing
a hit piece on Tesla and Musk. Um, I no longer see the news as purely the news.
It all has this, you know, real overt and obvious political element to it
depending on the story. But anything about uh Tesla and Elon Musk that comes
out around now is definitely going to have a political bend to it. But listen to this headline.
This is the Wall Street Journal and this is their uh their opinion piece
here. It says Tesla is in disarray. Is it? Do you think Tesla is in
disarray? What? What evidence would you have that
Tesla's in disarray? All right. Um, and that Musk has already
moved beyond caring about cars. And so the idea is that he's shifted his
focus to robots and and robo taxis and he's letting the Tesla car company um
disintegrate in disarray. Now, how would they know any of that? Are they in the
meetings? Do they have some kind of source that's sleeping in a tent with them at the AI headquarters?
Because, you know, he's spending a lot of time there lately. Um, I don't think there's any real evidence
that he has the suddenly he has the inability to run all of his companies when obviously he was doing it before.
Did Did he suddenly lose his ability to deal with multiple problems at the same
time? I doubt it, but but apparently if you Wall Street
Journal, you can just sort of declare that you know what he's he's thinking and how he feels and what his inner
thoughts are. Anyway, there but it is true that their sales were down but we're talking about
the period where politics were affecting everybody's buying decision.
So if you just project forward, you know, a couple of years, do you think
people will still not be buying a Tesla because they don't like what Trump did
with or what must with Doge? I don't know if this is some kind of a a
lifetime problem. Um, feels to me that if if he keeps
making cars that are unambiguously better than the other cars,
that's going to have an effect on the market over time. So, we'll see. But
also, the uh value of Tesla does have a lot built into it about the optimism
about robots and robo taxis. So um it might be true that the Tesla
ordinary car part of the company is now where all the value will be in just a
few short years. That's what the market thinks that the that the value is in the future stuff. And it's probably true
because I do agree with uh Elon Musk who says that the humanoid robot market will
be maybe the biggest market of any market of all time and Tesla might be
leading that. Well, Sean Diddy Combmes has some good luck and some bad luck.
Good news, bad news. Good news for Diddy is that he was acquitted on the most
serious charges um in the multi-charge case. The most
serious ones would have given him potentially life in prison, but those
the jury found not guilty by unanimous decision.
But he's still in jail and he's not getting bail
because he was found guilty on two lesser charges which uh as I listen to
the people who know what they're talking about which does not include me for any of the legal stuff. the uh people who
know what they're talking about say that um generally the crimes he's he's uh
he's been convicted of now that that they don't even prosecute that generally
because it's so small that if this were someone else and the
only thing he'd been alleged to have done are the things he was found guilty of probably they wouldn't even take it
to court. Um, I think it was basically technically prostitution
with women who clearly were um, according to their own text messages,
um, women who were consensually involved.
That's it. Now, I don't, you know, obviously I'm the worst one to talk about the legal stuff, but what I I
think is true is that he was accused of a technical crime in which there was no
there's no alleged victim because the victim has a text record of being consensually
involved in all that stuff. So, so I asked a question on X. Is it too
soon to talk about a pardon? Because here's my take.
I'm not defending Diddy. I'm not I'm not a fan of his work and I certainly would
not defend him beating up his ex in the hallway of the hotel. But that wasn't
apparently he wasn't being tried for that. I don't understand why. Seems like
that would have been the obvious thing to try him on. But again, probably because the woman was not pressing
charges. Do you even need to press charges if it's on video and we can all
see it? I don't know how that works. But so just to be clear, I don't think he's
a good guy. And I'm sure he's been involved in things which if we knew for
sure what he was doing, we'd say to ourselves, M. H that looks pretty bad.
All right, so I'm not defending him, but I will defend the following standard,
which is you don't treat Diddy worse than you would treat anybody else. And
it sort of looks like they're treating him worse than they would treat other people. Um because if someone else had been
accused and convicted of only these things,
um we'll find out. If the judge gives him serious jail time for what he's been convicted of, I feel like a pardon is
completely in order. And Trump was asked about it. Steve Ducey asked about it in
one of Trump's uh open oval office events just yesterday, I think. And
Trump said he, you know, wasn't really paying attention to the case. So, he didn't have an opinion on it. But I
always forget that Trump had lots of interesting friends in the past. He lost a lot of
them when he ran for office. But he actually was friendly with Diddy.
So, it's not a stranger for Trump. It's somebody he knows pretty well. But, you
know, I guess did he probably changed when Trump ran for office. So Trump did
not rule out, but he had also not looked into pardoning, did he?
Now, depending on what I hear, you know, about what's going on with him, um, I
might be in favor of the pardon, uh, it's probably too soon to have a
hard opinion on it, but I wouldn't want to see him treated in a way that would not be normal for anybody else to be
treated. that that seems like a reasonable standard. Um, so we'll see.
Anyway, why in the world does he not get bail? Does anyone know why he doesn't get
bail? The judge's reasons were that he that he can't demonstrate that he is not
a danger to the community. Who who can do that? You know what I
can't do? I can't demonstrate that I'm not a danger to the community. Can you?
How would you possibly demonstrate that? You could demonstrate what you are
perhaps simply by being that, but how do you how do you demonstrate that you
would not do something dangerous? That's not even a real thing. And they
also say is a flight risk. To which I say, a flight risk?
Really? How in the world would he get on a flight? I guess a private flight. But
he doesn't seem like a flight risk to me. He seems like somebody who worst
case scenario might serve another year or two and then he's back in business.
So, is that a flight risk? I don't know. He served a year.
If he if they told him that, you know, his record would be cleared and he could
go back to his good life if he served one or two more, would that be enough for him to make him leave the country
and become, you know, live in some place where they don't have an extradition treaty, which wouldn't be fun. I don't
know. So, keep an eye on that.
So, give me an update. Uh the big beautiful bill allegedly there was going
to be a vote this morning and is postponed.
Um the early reporting is that uh they had the votes so they hadn't done the
vote but they they knew that they had the commitments for the vote to get it passed. Um and of course that was after
Trump had private conversations with some of the holdouts. Wouldn't you love
to have been a fly on the wall listening to Trump convince the final holdowns?
Do you think there was any threatening going on? Probably. There was probably a lot of
threatening going on. Uh some would call it blackmail, but I think it was just if
you don't vote for this, you know, I will destroy you. But it also might have
been, and I think this is more likely, well, maybe equally likely, uh, it might
be equally likely true, that Trump convinced them that they'll do some serious deficit reduction in the
upcoming budget process, which is a bigger a bigger process.
So, do you think they got the hold downs got a commitment that some of the Doge
stuff would be taken more seriously than it is in this bill? I don't know. We'll
see. We don't know what what they said. But I was looking at uh people reporting
what the big beautiful bill has in it because it got tweaked by the Senate a
million times. And you know, by the time it goes back to the House to see if they're okay with the Senate tweaks,
we members of the public, we don't have any idea what's in that thing at this point. So, I I thought, well, I'll dive
in and I'll see, you know, just some obvious questions. Like, one of the one
of the things the bill allegedly does is it removes a tax on social security.
Do you believe that? Do you believe the big beautiful bill
uh eliminated taxes on social security? Because I saw online that it does.
Well, probably not for me. There there's some kind of an income
uh cut off and you know, I would be above it. So, if you're still working
and you're you're getting a uh regular paycheck,
it won't take much regular paycheck for you not to be eligible for the no tax on
social security. So, even something as simple as that, is
there or is there not a tax on social security? You would you would have to do
sort of a deep dive to figure out where you stand in that. Do you even know? Do you even know if it applies to you? Um,
same with uh same with a number of other topics. So, we've got this big beautiful
bill that the public does not understand. The pundits, some might,
some won't. But here's what I call the perfect situation.
You know, if you look at the incentive of the people in Congress and you say, "Are they doing it for the money or they
doing it to keep their jobs?" You know, why do they vote the way they vote? Well, I would submit to you that the
ideal bill for Congress is one where the public doesn't understand anything about
what's in it. Because then both sides can criticize it, which is wildly,
wildly misleading claims about what it does and doesn't do. and the public will
not really have the time or interest or even ability to look at the details of
the bill. And if you're if you're going to depend on watching the news or watching social
media or watching even me and then oh well I'll watch my favorite pundits who
seem really smart and they'll talk about the bill and then I'll know I'll know if
I like it because the pundits said this or that is a good idea. Do you think the
pundits, even the ones that you agree with, do you think they understand what's in the bill and all the
implications? No, they don't.
Very a few might. Very few might. But you won't even know which the few are
because the Republicans are all going to say the same thing. If you talk to any Republican or anybody who supports
Republicans and you say, "Did you cut Medicaid?" What will the Republican say?
They would say, "Cut Medicaid?" No, we protected it.
And then they would give their argument that you don't understand about well you know it's it's for
a lot of the people kicked off would be migrants migrants and stuff and
[Music] and then you would walk away saying oh nobody's being kicked off of Medicaid
that's not even a thing. It's just the people who shouldn't have been there. waste and abuse, the the the
non-citizens who should who you believe should not have been eligible, the people who refuse to work even though
they're able-bodied. And so you're going to go away with the Republican view of it that nothing got cut and in fact it
got strengthened by protecting against abuse. And then if you happen to be a Democrat
and you watch any of the Democratleaning news or social media, it will say that
there the mean old Republicans uh cut Medicaid and they won't they will
not specify who got cut. They'll just say it's a big ass number like 12
million or something. And then they'll say, "Well, 12 million people will lose
lose their health care." And they'll they'll act like it could be people, you
know, and able-bodied people. And neither of those I would say that
neither of those takes are accurate.
It's just that you can say anything about a bill that people aren't going to look into on their own. So the two sides
will just have the two different movies running. Which one's true?
I'd say neither. You know, I I've heard the argument on both sides and then I've also read it, you know, what the news
reports about it and I would say to me it looks like neither side is telling the truth, but they don't need to
because they know that their people will accept their version as the truth and
then they'll just parrot it because our opinions are assigned to us. We don't come up with them on our own.
Anyway, um so I was looking at what it would do to
my taxes and uh pretty good. It looks like it might help me. But then
I look at the salt taxes. Yeah. The state and local taxes deduction that
used to be there and then it was taken away. taken away from the blue state residents like me and but now it's back
but there are all these caps on it so it doesn't make any difference to me you know if your house is above a certain
level or your income is you don't get any of those you don't get much or any
of the salt benefits. So everything's too complicated for anybody to understand. We'll see if it
gets passed. The the most uh probably the the thing that is the most
easy example of two movies on one screen is that the uh critics and at least some
of these scoring organizations say that it will drive up the debt or up
the deficit by over $3 trillion over time. $3 trillion. But the Trump
administration would say they're not scoring it right because they're acting like nothing changes except the budget.
But what would really change is that the budget could be part of a larger effort to goose the economy Trump style until
the economy is just clicking away like we've never seen it. the GDP's up to,
you know, five or seven or some number we've never even seen before. And it's producing all this extra revenue that
the the groups who do the analysis of the budget impact don't include because
they just assume that the GDP does what it always does. And the whole point of
it is to goose the GDP so it doesn't do what it always did, but it does way
better. So, so Trump and and company would say
it's going to reduce the deficit by two trillion. So, now we have a $5 trillion
gap between what the Democrats are being told the bill will do and what the
Republicans are being told it will do. So, will it cost you three trillion or
will it save you two trillion? Which one do you believe is true? And the answer
is, I don't know. How would I know? I mean, really, how
would I know? How would you know? Because somebody that you don't know
told you they did an analysis and they came up with a certain answer. Would you believe that? These are completely
unknowable things at this point. So, um I do think
that if anyone except Trump had had said to me, we're going to goose the economy
so much that we'll make extra money. If anyone else had said that, I would not
believe it for a second. Because I would just think they're going to do normal stuff and get normal results. But Trump,
he does now have a solid track record of doing things that other people can't get done. and achieving things that even if
you were very proTrump, you might have said to yourself, "Well, he's never going to get that done." And then he
does. So, he might be able to goose the economy like we've never seen before.
Certainly, he has all the tools to do that now. And some of it is luck, but it
all seems lined up at this point that maybe we could see an economy like we've
just never seen before. could happen. And then maybe this would be the
Republican best case scenario. Maybe um when the upcoming budget process
is um engaged, and that wouldn't be too many months from now. I think it happens
in a few months that that's where they do the big Doge cuts. Maybe. I mean, I
feel like anything where you have to get 60 votes in the Senate will never happen, but maybe.
All right, see what else we have. Uh,
let's check in with what the Democrats are saying about the big beautiful bill.
Uh, Premila Japal, Representative Japal says, quote, "If
they do succeed today," which means getting the big beautiful bill signed. July 4th is going to be about uh
apple pie kicking mom out of her nursing home and health care for no one.
And so she's telling she's telling her constituents that the bill will remove
health care for everyone. How many of the Democrat public will
know that that's just not true or not close to true? It's just miles away from
being true. How many will know that? I don't know.
Probably the people who support her would not be looking into it. And if they looked into it, they'd turn on
MSNBC. And MSNBC would say, "Oh yeah, here's
this example of somebody who got kicked out of a nursing home." And they won't ask questions like, you know, "Were you
supposed to be there in the first place? You know, did you legally have access to this?"
So that's her take. However, I'm gonna give her persuasion points for being
visual in her persuasion because listen, just listen to this thing she said
kicking mom out of her nursing home. That one you feel because you see your
own mom and you see the building and you say to yourself, "Holy, what am I going
to do if I don't have professionals taking care of her and somebody else paying the bill for it?" You know, I
can't stay home from work. I can't afford to do it on my own. That one really hits. So, I don't want to give
her advice, but if you're talking about a budget and you can turn it into kicking mom out of her nursing home,
which by the way is not close to anything that's really going to happen, but wow, that's that's visual persuasion
right there. Well, meanwhile, Trump says he's got a
deal with Vietnam for trade in which u there would be no tariff when we sell
into Vietnam, but they would still pay a 20% tariff for what they're selling into
the US. So that would be a Oh, and also the the bigger part is that uh they
Vietnam would not be allowed to take Chinese products and just ship it
through Vietnam. So it looks like it came from Vietnam to avoid the uh higher
tariffs. Uh the US impos would impose extra tariffs on stuff that came from
China first and that would be a 40% tariff. So Vietnam agreed to that
apparently. So that's like a really big deal because it sort of validates what
Trump was saying that we have the most valuable market. So we can essentially
charge other countries an entry fee just to have access to the market. So Vietnam
will pay well, you know, you could say that US companies are paying it, but the
point is that it would suppress imports from Vietnam.
And sure enough, it it would put a price on access to American markets.
Um, there's a report. Anyway, so what's what's the big deal about the Vietnam
thing is if it's true, and it's probably too soon to know if it's the final deal,
but if he really got this, it's going to validate everything he said. It's just
going to make him look like he was so right about tariffs that the other trade
deals might hasten to, you know, make a deal maybe.
So Trump's having the best summer ever. Um, speaking of which, allegedly,
according to the Times of Israel, Hamas is satisfied with the Trump motivated
ceasefire idea. So that would mean that Israel said yes to a ceasefire for Gaza
and that Hamas has agreed to the terms. Do you believe that? I'm going to put
that in my category of too soon. And I only see one source so far, Times of
Israel. Now, I'm not saying the Times of Israel is low credibility. I'm just saying that
this topic is low credibility. That if you hear that Hamas agreed to do
something reasonable, what should be your first response to that? Should you
say to yourself, "Wow, finally Hamas decided to be reasonable and make a deal." Or would it be more reasonable to
say Hamas is never going to make a reasonable deal with anybody,
so obviously the story can't be true? I lean toward I don't think Hamas can make
a reasonable deal with anybody. So, I lean toward this not being a true story. So, I'm not going to embrace it
yet. But it would be really impressive if Trump got this done right before the
4th of July. Oh my goodness. So, so my optimism wants it to be true
because it would be incredible. I mean, it would just be jaw-droppingly give me the Nobel Peace Prize. Um, you
know, that conversation is over forever. Best president of all time.
Um, so I mean it'd be wonderful if it's true, but I'm going to bet against it at
the moment. Maybe it'll be true later. Well, in a story that, you know, in I
guess normal times would be the biggest story in the country, but it's just sort of a thing that passes by at this point.
CIA director John Rackcliffe. Um, so he's head of the CIA. The CIA did
a analysis of the Russia collusion um prosecution against Trump. I call it
the Russia collusion hoax. And what they concluded was that, and I love this
because they concluded exactly what you and I thought was true. So see how many
of you say, "Uh, that's what I thought was the case from day one." So they say
that uh John Brennan and Clapper and Comey manipulated intelligence and
silenced career professionals uh all so they could pursue Trump and
try to drive him out of office with essentially just madeup
And according to CIA director John Rackcliffe, the CIA can conclude
that they were bad actors who tried to essentially overthrow the uh the
election. Now, when you saw Brennan and Clapper appear on, you know, all the networks
that they appeared on during the time when the Russia collusion thing was at its peak,
didn't you know that they were the two guys behind it? and and that they had
manipulated things. Couldn't you tell every time they appeared on TV? Because I could. I just
didn't want to say it out loud because I thought, well, I don't have evidence. So, if you don't have evidence, you
know, you don't want to get sued for liel or something. But every time I saw Brennan and
Clapper, they looked so obviously like they were
lying. and they were obviously the ones who had the most, you know, their hands
on the levers of what happens and what doesn't happen. It seemed really, really
super glaringly obvious that they were trying to overthrow the country with
their winged monkeys and the media supporting them. So to me, this is just the oldest news
in the world. But the new part is that the CIA confirms it. They looked into
it. So yes, these three guys, if you had Comey in there as the third, that they
literally manipulated things and ignored things that they shouldn't have ignored and focused on things they shouldn't
have focused on and they did it intentionally to
 Trump. Now, I don't know what the criminal
penalty is for that, but it's also part of the twin hoaxes
at the moment. Well, you know the story of the fine people hoax that was the the
central tentpole hoax that was holding the Democrats together. You know, no matter what they thought about their own
bad politicians, you could always depend on a Democrat to believe the Fine People hoax. And they would say things like,
"Well, yeah, my side isn't doing so well, but at least they're not promoting neo-Nazis,"
which of course never happened in the real world. Trump uh denounced them. He did not promote them.
But as long as that hoax was there, Democrats could manipulate their base
because they'd say, "Trump is worse. Look at look at what he said in Charlottesville," which of course he did
not say. He said the opposite. So that hoax was holding up all the other hoaxes
and then it collapsed. So what did they do? They just put it in
a new tenpole. The new tenpole is January 6. The January 6 quote
insurrection. And I was listening to CNN yesterday, I
guess, and Anderson Cooper had some journalist on. And the journalist was
just so deep into the pure propaganda. No, the 2020 election, the f the fact
that Biden won is a fact. It's a fact. And do you know how he defended that he
he alone apparently would know that the election was not rigged cuz it's a fact.
It's a fact. You can't change it. It's a fact. But you know, there's nothing you can say because it's a fact. It's just a
fact. And he would just say that over and over again until the idiots watching
that network would say, "Well, I guess we know that for sure." To which I say,
"How would anybody know that for sure? Are you telling me that if our CIA tried
to throw an election in another country that they get caught every time?
Are you telling me that they're not there's nobody involved in the United States politics or or intelligence or
anywhere who would know how to cheat one of our elections? How would we possibly know if somebody
knew how to cheat the election and and whether they didn't? You can't know what
you don't know. And how in the world do these
journalists get off telling you it's a fact when nobody can know that? That is a completely unknowable proposition.
Now, do I have proof that that election was rigged? No. No, I don't have any
proof of that. The only thing I know for sure with 100% certainty is that you
couldn't know just by following the news. Yeah. What are you going to do? You can
tell if the election is good because the news said it was good. Have you learned
nothing about the news? And then Anderson Cooper was, you know, agreeing with his guests. You know, it's
a fact. It's a fact. It's a fact. Now, in order to sell that fact, they they
have to get you to believe two ridiculous things.
One ridiculous thing is that anybody could know if an election was rigged or
not rigged successfully because if something is rigged
successfully by definition you wouldn't know. That's what makes it successful.
And the other the other uh ridiculous assumption is that the people who
protested and including Trump knew that the election
was won by Biden and were simply pretending it didn't happen. Pretending
they were simply pretending that it was illegitimate election so
that they could take over the country by what?
uh wandering around in a building and trespassing. Is that how you take over a country?
So, the January 6 hoax has the two most ridiculous
assumptions at its core that anybody could know if an election was rigged and
that the people on January 6 believed that it was totally fairly went
to Biden and that they were there to try to change it to Trump because of his authoritarian
blah blah blah brainwashing propaganda. It's a cult. Oh my goodness. It's the weakest
it's the weakest hoax of all time because you don't even need to do any research to to know that those two
problems exist, the ones I mentioned, but it's all they have. So, the
Democrats are a hoaxbased machine. They need at least one tentpole hoax. 10pole
hoax means it's the main one that makes all the other hoaxes look like they're reasonable. Because all the other stuff
that they say about Trump, just like the fine people hoax, where if they could
sell that as being true, then any other accusation of being racist, sounded like
it was true because you you say to yourself, well, if the main thing that
that would make him a racist, the fine people hoax, if that main thing is true,
it's really easy to believe all the other accusations because you've already established who he is. So now they've
taken that technique over to the insurrection and they'll say if you buy
the fact that he was part of a, you know, knowing he had not been elected
but trying to take the job anyway, then all of the other accusations
about authoritarianism, they all sound true because you say to
yourself, well, he tried to conquer the country and stay in office once. So then they can sell you that he doesn't plan
to leave after a second term, which you would never believe unless you
had fallen for the tentpole hoax, which is that he had already tried once to conquer the country by telling his his
followers to trespass and wander around in a building without
any guns. So anyway,
beware the fine people hoax. We we'll take care of that one. I'll work on that
one. um the University of California system, so that's the system that is uh binds
together all the various California universities has announced that boycots
of Israel will be banned and that's because of pressure from Trump on funding. Um, so now they're
banning protests against Israel or boycots of Israel. To which Glenn
Greenwald might ask, um, are they now allowed to boycott
everybody but Israel? What if the University of California
system um didn't say no if they decided to boycott some other country?
or do we do we really have laws now that are Israel specific and it's the one place you can't
boycott? I don't know. So, while I'm certainly in
favor of tamping down any signs of anti-semitism, I'm not sure if boycotting a country
quite satisfies the anti-semitism claim. Because I would wonder I would wonder,
you know, it would make more sense if they said you can't boycott anybody.
You know, maybe universally should not be involved in boycotting. Or if we said
you can't boycott anybody who's an ally of the United States,
that wouldn't be bad, would it? because then it's not Israel specific, but it
would include anybody who's an ally of the United States. So, what happens if uh somebody wants to
boycott Russia? Still legal,
still okay? Or boycott China? Don't Don't we always talk about not
buying China stuff? Effectively, you know, a boycott.
So, I guess we have laws now that apply to one country. Um,
let's see. Uh, what else is happening?
Um, yeah, CNN is u announcing that the uh they're
saying that CEOs are now admitting that there's going to be a lot of layoffs
with AI. Oh, no. I'm sorry. There's two opposite
stories. I'm confusing them. Um, the positive story is that CNN is admitting
that uh the number of layoffs under Trump have declined tremendously.
So, apparently the they went out of their way to say a story that was just unambiguously positive for Trump. Again,
I've been telling you CNN's making a legitimate attempt
to include a little bit of both sides, which I had not seen before. So, it is a
change, but uh this is a good example of that, admitting that the number of layoffs under Trump are way down, down
49%. But not all good news. Meanwhile, a
federal judge, let's see if you understand this better than I do because the legal stuff is
just so far out of my domain. But a federal judge in Washington DC just
ruled that uh Trump does not have the power to declare that uh he's going to
close the asylum process because it's turned into an invasion. So the word
invasion is the active word. So Trump was saying
that if it's an invasion um the federal government has responsibility of repelling it on behalf
of the states and uh that's all he was doing. The uh executive order closed the
asylum process as his response to the quote invasion.
Now, the federal judge says um that invasion language doesn't give
Trump any new powers that he didn't have before. So, he doesn't really have that power. And the part I don't understand
is that the Supreme Court just ruled that a federal judge can't overrule
something that applies to the entire country. They can only do things that apply to their their domain.
So, how did this judge do the very thing that the Supreme Court just made
illegal? Well, it has something to do with
declaring future asylum seekers a protected class.
And here's where I'm going to bow out. Because if you understand the law well
enough to know why that is a appropriate workaround
to just simply declare them a class. How exactly does that give him the power
to do what the Supreme Court just said you guys can't do? You can't you can't block something nationwide if you're a f
just a federal judge. Oh no. We'll just declare that these people who might come
in in the future are a protected class. Somehow that works around it. How's that
work? All right. So, I'm a little bit confused by it. I assume it'll go to the Supreme
Court. I assume the Supreme Court would say you can't do this trick to get
around our ruling. I don't know. Maybe it would go the other way.
So listen to the people who know something about the law if you want to know more about that.
Meanwhile, James Carville, uh
he says that he thinks that Trump's going to try to rig the midterm election. Um and he says that uh Trump can't
possibly win fair and square in the midterms because the big beautiful bill is about 25 points underwater in terms
of popularity in the country in general. Um and that's he's that Trump will have
a massive defeat and he's not going to be able to handle that. So that uh Trump
will declare martial law or declare that there's some other national emergency.
so that he can throw out the results of the midterms.
Now, that's what James Garville says. Now, that would be an example of um
getting your base all riled up, but it does seem to suggest that he believes that you could rig an election.
So, can he talk to Anderson Cooper on CNN? Cuz he believes that an election
can be rigged, but maybe not by rigging the vote. I think he's suggesting that
he might rig something about the system, you know, declaring an emergency or
martial law or something, which would be more overthrowing an election than rigging it.
Um, going back to Representative Japal, here's what she's saying on CNN. He she
says, "What is deranged and cruel and outrageous is that literally we're seeing literally like literally actually
happening. We're seeing ICE agents and they're coming and kidnapping and disappearing people on the streets of
the United States. Is that happening? Are they kidnapping and disappearing
um people or just people who are illegal and shouldn't be here in the first
place? Well, probably their net is picking up more people than you thought they would.
So, there is a little bit of that. So, this is hyperbole. Of course, there's no kidnapping and there's no disappearing.
But I can definitely see that the aggressive approach to immigration
um is going to pick up some people who are not the worst of the worst and they will get shipped off to who
knows where. So my take on this is that it does
transfer a burden from the the legal citizens of the United States
and their their risk would be having too many people come in who were not vetted. It shifts the burden to the people who
have already come in illegally. Now I don't mind shifting burden from
the people who are obeying the law to the people who did not obey the law.
That's it does seem, you know, my my empathy gene kicks in and I definitely
have empathy for the population that is being most affected. I have lots of empathy. Um,
but from a conceptual level, philosophically,
shifting the burden from the people who are doing everything right to the people who are trying to get a little extra
from the system, that doesn't seem terrible. even though it does have a price.
Um, there's this guy Eli Mistell, you've seen him. He looks like he has the big
white afro and uh he's often on MSNBC. Well, he was on Joy Reed's podcast and
he said that uh that America is the bad guys on the world stage and a menace to
free and peaceful people because America is the one causing all the trouble. To
which I say, well, that's sort of true, but I would say that America pursues its
national best interest, which is often tied to its multinational profitability.
And uh that's not really pleasant for the rest of the world. But every country gets the opportunity
to pursue their own best interest. We don't complain too much when other countries do it. We just say, "Well,
obviously everybody pursues their own best interests." So yeah, we're sort of
the bad guys to other countries because we're doing the same thing
they're doing, pursuing our own best interests.
So, he's kind of right and kind of wrong at the same time. CNN's Harry Enon
was uh blown away, as was I, by new data showing that Democrats have shifted
massively from being pro-Israel to being pro-Palestinian and
anti-Israel. And the shift is enormous. Um, it's a
the uh the pro Palestinian position is up by 43 points.
43 points. In other words, it's not even close. That it's one of the few issues
where where it's just not close. So, the Democrats are just anti-Israel, pro
Palestinian, and the Republicans. I haven't seen the Republican numbers, but probably not
that. My guess is that the Republicans are still pro-Israel by a majority, but
I don't know. So, obviously, the Gaza situation
um and the military might that Israel has been employing with US support is
not popular, but I didn't see that it could ever move that much.
So apparently the uh um something big is happening. I don't
know if it's a Tik Tok effect, a social media effect, but if you take the Gaza
situation and you put it all over Tik Tok and social media, I can see how you
could turn half of the country, you know, 180. Looks like that's what happened.
According to the Wall Street Journal, there's a bunch of CEOs who are now saying that AI will vastly reduce the
number of jobs. Now remember, at the moment, the number of jobs is looking
good. So employment looks pretty good and we've had AI for
kind of two years and so far not really any direct effect
on the overall job situation. definitely affect some individual companies, but
overall employment stayed strong. Um, and I'm wondering if this is an
example of the Adams law of slowmoving disasters where if everyone can see the
problem coming like all these CEOs, um, I think the the CEO of Anthropic,
which is an AI company, says we'll see unemployment levels of 10
to 20% from AI replacing people. Now that would be
unemployment of 20%. That's depression level, isn't it?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think even the Great Depression was around 20% unemployment.
That's hard to survive that level. Um, and that I think uh
CEO of what Ford says that half of all white collar workers might be replaced
by AI. But I'm going to be a little bit skeptical about these predictions. I
think it's a little bit too obvious and easy to say that oh AI will replace a
bunch of workers. It, you know, if you're wrong, nobody's going to be mad at you. they'll just be happy that
nothing bad happened. And if you're right, you get to say, "Look how right I was." So, it's sort of a safe, easy,
routine thing to predict. Oh, yeah. The AI will take half our jobs. But so far,
um, I I feel like it will definitely take jobs in some businesses, and some
industries, but I don't know. I feel like maybe as many jobs will be created as there are
taken away. We'll see. I'm a skeptic.
I'm a loss. Um, apparently in LA there's some kind
of u $30 minimum wage hike that was passed
by the city council. So, if you have a hotel in LA, you would have to pay all of your
workers a minimum of $30 an hour. Now, the federal minimum wage is still like
$7.50, but a lot of states have higher higher ones, like $15 maybe. I don't know what
it is in California. Is it $15 minimum wage? But for the hotels, it would be
$30 minimum wage. And of course, the hotels are saying they can't survive
that. And maybe they can't. Well, let's talk about uh Jerome Powell.
Does it feel to you that Jerome Powell has that Joe Biden vibe now? When I see
pictures of Jerome Powell, he doesn't look like he still has his fast.
[Laughter] Now, it's still only based on the videos and the pictures.
It's not even based on anything he says or believes or anything like that. It's based on just the vibe. He's got that
Joe Biden, you know, I stayed in the job too long vibe.
But uh Bill Py is pointing out that when uh Powell testified
uh to the Senate Banking Committee, so that's a testimony under oath I think um
that he had answered some questions um dishonestly and the questions were
involved a new building that was being built for the Fed and he was being asked
about some of the alleged luxuries that were being built into the building, I'll call them luxuries, like a rooftop
garden and some stuff like that. And that he must have said that they're not planning that. And now we know that
maybe that is part of the plan. So if he lied to Congress,
is that grounds for removing him from the Fed? Because it was a big project. It was I think it was over a billion
dollars in construction that they were looking at. Well, Bill Py has called this out as uh
potential grounds for removing him along with being too late about everything.
So, and then Trump has uh agreed with that um put to put more pressure on
Powell. Um there's new video of this Zoran Mani
guy back in 2021. We already saw the video where he said that the ultimate
goal is seizing the means of production which confirms that he's a communist,
not not just a socialist, but actually wants to go full communist, seizing the
means of production. In other words, the government owning all the factories and the the productions. I don't know. But
apparently he's he also in the similar video in 2021 said something about um I think the
government taking over the pen houses and turning them into lowcost housing. So basically
getting rid of private ownership of residential homes.
Now, you might argue that there's no such thing as private ownership of homes
in the United States because if you're paying property tax, which you are, um
if you stop paying the property tax, you you'd be uh you jailed by the
government. So, I you know, you could argue that we
already don't have private ownership of business, but it's closer to private
than the idea of the government owning it directly. So yes, uh, Mom Donnie with his creepy
communist smile. That smile that every time you see it, you say to yourself,
"Wait a minute, that smile looks like a snake oil salesman. Somebody is trying
to put one over on me." He has the least trustable face
because of that weird smile, the creepy communist smile. Um, so we'll see if
that becomes an issue. Well, Newsmax is talking about how the Washington Post has a big um opinion piece about how
Trump can lead the US to a nuclear energy revolution by supporting innovation and removing bureaucratic
stuff and red tape and stuff. Now, hold that in your brain.
Do you remember 2016 or so when I was
one of the people on social media who was lobbying really hard for both sides
of the aisle to understand that nuclear power was not just better than you thought it was in terms of safety and
economics etc. but required that we would never make it into the future as
an important country unless we had turned around completely our nuclear
energy policies and made them, you know, pro- nuclear power plants being built.
So that's now the common opinion on both the left and the right because the Washington Post opinion piece would
represent I think the left fully embracing you know maybe not the left
left left but the ordinary left embracing nuclear power as a requirement
but also the fact that they would write an article saying that Trump might be exactly the right person to get us there
because he's he's big on removing the, you know, the unnecessary regulations.
Um, that's amazing. It's just amazing that this even exists in the Washington Post. And then I said to myself,
oh, wait a minute. Did the Washington Post just think from, you know, first
principles and came to this idea that now they can be fullthroatedly embracing
nuclear energy. Is that what just happened? Or or is it possible that the Washington
Post is owned by Jeff Bezos? It is. And
that Jeff Bezos needs massive amounts of electricity to run his robot factories
and his own AI. Oh yeah. So the owner of the Washington
Post absolutely cannot survive in the future without massive nuclear power and
every other kind of energy. So, did the Washington Post on their own
come up with a new love for nuclear energy or or do they know who they work
for and they know that the business of the owner, you know, the extended business of all of his businesses can't
survive without a robust nuclear energy industry in the United States.
Just asking All right. According to modernity, John
Fleetwood, uh the Xfinity company, the one who provides cable and Wi-Fi to your
house, at least uh does in my house, um they now can spy on your physical
movements in your house via your Wi-Fi. So, you've probably seen stories about
this where uh Wi-Fi can see interference
and it can draw a little picture of where you are in your house. Did you know that?
Now, that's not a big problem except there's an allegation that Palunteer, which is a big uh you know government
contracted company, um that has connections to a whole bunch of data about you.
So, are you do you feel okay that Palunteer might I don't know this for
sure, but might someday have access to the Wi-Fi movement information so they
could tell where you are in your house and maybe even decisions about what you might be doing
and what you might do in the future. I don't know how much of this is real
and how much of this is people just worrying that it could become real, but
it's pretty scary. So, I don't know if it's real or just a potential real
thing. It is real that they can determine where you are. So, even even Xfinity is
advertising that. What we don't know or I don't know is if Palenter is going to
have access to that data and use it in some way you don't like. All right. Um,
Fox News is reporting how the IAEA uh has warned that Iran could restart
their uranium enrichment within months despite the US strikes.
So, do you buy that? So, even Iran has admitted that the
nuclear program was hit hard and you know a lot of destruction. But do you
believe the IAEA who are experts in this field that they
could start enriching in a few months? I don't know. I don't know how they
would know that. But we also wouldn't know what they can do that we don't know
about. So I don't know. So anyway, a part some
part bipartisan lawmakers, people on both sides have proposed that we put
together a plan to sell B2 stealth bombers to Israel so that we don't have
to be involved if Israel wants to rebomb Iran. Is that a good idea or a terrible
idea? Because I feel like Trump got a lot of benefit from being the only one who
could do these bunker buster bombs. If Israel could do it on its own, then
Trump would have had no leverage over Israel, right? And we like it when um
you know, because we know Israel is influential in the United States in Congress.
Wouldn't it be good if there was some influence that worked both ways and it was pretty strong influence? Cuz then
you've got a more productive, you know, ally situation where you're both you
both got your hand on a lever and uh sometimes one prevails and sometimes the
other, but you know, you're both pushing. I don't know. I don't know if that's a good idea or a bad idea.
Um, there's another report in Newsmax that North Korea is going to be sending
25,000 25,000 soldiers to boost the uh
the Russian military in Ukraine. 25 to 30,000 more. Is that because
Russia is running out of troops? Or whether they were running out or not,
it's just cheaper and easier to burn up these North Korean soldiers who don't
even know why they're there. So, it could be either one. I'm not sure I'd read too much into it. All right,
that is all I have to say today. And look how I came pretty close to 8:00.
So, did uh the big beautiful bill get voted on? You remember my prediction? My
prediction is that they would delay it after January 1 or after July 4th.
Um, so I don't have a prediction about whether it get signed, just a prediction that they're not going to make the July
4th deadline. They tried and I think there's still a really good chance they're going to hit it. So, we'll we'll
compare my prediction that they won't hit it to all the reporting that's a lot
smarter than me that says, "Yeah, it looks like they're going to hit it." So, uh I see in the comments that, uh
Jack Pobec thinks it will happen today. I think most people think it will happen today because Trump's going to put the
pressure from hell on the Republicans. Trump really, really, really, really
wants this to happen before July 4th or even on July 4th. Um,
and he's going to push as hard as anybody ever pushed anybody, but anything to get it done. So, I would
agree with Jack that the odds are it'll get done, but I'm still going to go with
my prediction that it won't u just to be a contrarian. All right.
All right. That's all I got. I'm going to say a few words to the people on locals, my beloved subscribers on
locals. The rest of you, thanks for joining and I will see you again
tomorrow. Same time, same place. Hope you enjoyed it.