Everybody, come on in. Grab a seat. We've got a
show for you. You're going to like it. It'll be awesome.
But first, I want to make sure I can see all your comments.
And come on. Come on, locals.
There we go. I can see you.
[Music] Good morning everybody and welcome to
the highlight of human civilization. It's called Coffee with Scott Adamson.
You've never had a better time. But if you'd like to take a chance in
elevating this experience to levels that no one can understand with their tiny
shiny human brains, all you need for that is a copper muger glass attacker
shell canteen junker flask. A vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite
liquid. I like coffee. and join me now for the unparalleled pleasure, the
dopamine of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. Go.
Ah, delicious.
Well, if you're a fan of Akira the Dawn, who makes music by taking social media
influencers voices and turning it into popular music. Well, he has another one
um that features me talking about what if laziness is a habit
and Kira the Dawn. So, look for that on my on my X feed today or at the Akira
the Dawn X feed. You're going to love it. Some people say
um it's the best thing they've ever heard. Some people use it to fall asleep, but
you might like it. Um, speaking of music, while Akira the
Dawn is rising, the Steve Miller band cancelled their US tour, not because the
ticket sales were soft, although they were. What would be the real reason they
they canled their 31 city tour? Well, according to the band, it's
because of climate change. So, it's probably a coincidence that the
tick hills were anemic. The real reason is because of the weather. Not just the
weather today, but the weather forever. Yeah. So, it'll be a little bit
embarrassing if uh next year they try to do another tour because I would ask um
what happened to climate change? Did it get solved? And what about all those
other touring acts? Are they going to take their chances? Will Paul McCartney's tour be destroyed by
climate? Maybe. Or maybe the Steve Miller band is not as popular as they
hoped. Well, I wonder if there's any news about
science that they didn't need to do any research. Well, yes. According to
Medscape, Carla Caner is writing that uh it looks like it might be possible
according to a large observational study to um analyze the activity of a user
with their smartphone and determine patterns of psychopathology.
In other words, they've determined that they can tell how crazy you are and what
form of crazy you are. You might call it mental health. Um, based on your changes
in your phone's activity or changes in your activity with your phone. Now, how
many of you did not know that if you had access to somebody's phone usage, you
could determine what their uh psychopathology is? Is there anybody who
didn't already know that if you knew what they were doing privately with their phone, you could
pretty much tell who's b crazy and who's not, and probably even specifically what's wrong.
Well, they don't know that for sure, but they're planning a big study to find out. But they don't need it. They can
just ask Scott. Scott, um, would we be able to determine the
mental health of a person by their phone usage? Yes.
Big yes. Yes, you can. Well, uh, according to interesting
engineering, Chris Young writes that, uh, there are several firms trying to
make it cheaper to launch rockets into space. One of them is a centrifuge, a
massive centrifuge. So, it spin the rocket and when the the speed is really
high, it would release it. So, it basically just toss it in the air. And
then once the hard part of the liftoff is over, cuz the the closer you are to Earth, the more fuel you need, then some
fuel would kick in after it reached a certain height. So that's in the works,
startup, and uh there's a company that's looking to use a space cannon to blast
payloads into, you know, low orbit so that they don't need as much fuel. But
now there's a new one called Origa Space and they're trying to develop a mag lev
track so they can shoot a uh space module into space with much less fuel
and they've been funded. So I don't know if Elon Musk is ever going to use any of
these. I feel like none of them would work if you had a Cuban on board because you
would have to accelerate it so fast that it would probably kill all people. But,
you know, maybe if you're launching a I don't know, a space weapon or um some
kind of intercontinental ballistic weapon uh might be very useful. So,
we'll see. Meanwhile, the uh CEO of NPR, she went back on CNN because, as you
know, the federal funding for NPR was uh voted away.
And uh on CNN, Senator John Kennedy is commenting on a clip of her on CNN in
which she claims that NPR is quote a nonpartisan organization.
the funding was cut because they're a partisan organization, but she says,
"No, we're nonpartisan. Always have been." So, Senator Kennedy
um forwarded your clip on X and added his comment. So, why did a former NPR
editor find that their $200 million DC newsroom had 87 Democrats in editorial
positions and zero Republicans? So, the CEO of NPR wants us to believe
that they're nonpartisan, but a 100% of their editors, and there are a lot of them, 87 of them, every one
of them is a Democrat. H I'm not sure I believe her.
Well, let's see if you can find a pattern in this next story. Does this
story sound like anything you've ever heard before? Does it remind you of
anything else that's happened in the news? Uh New York Post is reporting that
um Biden pushed for uh $10 billion worth of electric mail delivery uh trucks. So,
he wanted to build a fleet of electric, you know, green energy trucks for the
post office. How many of them did they make? Um, they've only made 250 electric
mail trucks in two years. Uh, so it appears that the pattern of
Democrats being very good at voting money for things is really bad at making
anything happen, such as a high-speed rail, such as everything else they've tried to
fund, such as their rural Wi-Fi, they build nothing.
How many times do you have to see a story about Democrats allocating billions of dollars to a construction
product project that didn't happen and probably it didn't happen because
Democrats always have so many rules, you know, environmental rules and people got
to comment on it. And so once again, Democrats are the ones who can't build
anything. Yeah. Cindra, another example. So, allegedly
um there's there are big protests this weekend. Is it happening today yet? So,
it's a called good trouble protest. Good trouble referring to, you know, the kind
of protest that's trouble, but there's a good reason for it. and uh Newsmax
reporting about this. Um it and then uh Newsmax was doing a person on the street
interview with some of the good trouble protesters and I I can't get enough of
this. You know what's going to happen, right? So the reporter puts the
microphone in the face of the protester who is happy to talk. How old is the
protester? If you guessed senior citizen, you were correct.
So when asked why this the senior citizen was citizen was asked, "What are
you protesting against?" And I'd like to do my impression of the
senior citizen who thought it was important to go protest when asked, "Why are you protesting?" It goes something
like this. uh well the the the Trump uh things and all the all the autocracy and
there's the stealing of the democracy. What kind of democracy is he stealing?
Well, there all kinds of things so many things I I can't think of one but you
know he's autocratic and the oligarchs and they're stealing the democracy.
Oh my god. I want to see as many of those as I can.
I want to see if anyone can come up with anything because they are pro pastors. Not
protesters. They're pro pastors. They're pests.
All right. Uh somebody asked uh somebody named Defiant L's on X. It's a X
account. um said uh you know why why isn't there more of a meme generator
built into Grock now Grock can create images but uh
wouldn't you like to add your own text to it and turn it into a meme well Elon
Musk saw that comment and said something very cool is brewing and later he said
working on a new way to make creative viral videos fast it's being called
imagine So maybe Grock will be your solution to
meme making. Um I don't know if it will suggest a meme or if you have to just
pick your own image and then add your own text or will it use AI
to suggest viral videos. I don't know if AI is up to that. So,
I'm going to guess it's just helping you make your own memes. I doubt it could make a meme that anybody would care
about, but we'll see. If it can, that would be indeed very cool.
All right. Um, here's what I love.
So, Dana Bash was on CNN and she was reading a truth social post by Trump.
And in that post, Trump was saying um
he was talking about the fake news PBS and uh and NPR and he said that they
were even worse than CNN. Now, because he's the president of the United States, whatever he says that's
provocative is news. So CNN, whose job is to cover the news, has to read out
loud or show that the president of the United States calls them fake news.
So let me ask you this. Uh I've told you that I like watching the news for the
the humor. Um and honestly, that's not hyperbole. I
I watch the news, you know, somewhat to be uh informed,
but also because it's funny so often. Now, what would be funnier than Trump
making the fake news cover the real news that the president of the United States calls the fake news the fake news?
Let me read that again because I'm so proud of it. I wrote this. What is funnier than Trump making the fake news
cover the real news that the president of the United States calls the fake news the fake news? Nothing. There's nothing
funnier than that. The fact that Trump has made the fake
news punch themselves on air. Uh, I've got a message from the president. Oh,
whoa. Stop hitting me. No, I can't. Now that's funny.
All right. Um, Joy Reid was a guest on Pierce Morgan's
show and uh he shows a video of her crying after getting fired from MSNBC
and uh she claimed that uh part of the reason she got fired is that she's a
black woman. And Pierce Morgan pushed back and he said, "Let's be honest. I don't think
you were fired after all those years because of your skin color or because you're a black woman.
So, uh, I'm going to side with Joy Reid, um, who believes she was fired by MSNBC,
the most left-leaning place on the earth, because of her black woman status. But she's not alone. There's a
pattern that's been developed because another black woman named uh
Stephen Colbear. Steven Colbear. Uh there's another black woman who's been
cancelled. Um apparently she had a show on late night, some kind of late night
show she had, and I've never saw it, but I've heard of it. So, black woman Steven
Coar has also been cancelled. Now, it's not because she apparently said bad
things about her employer and about the $16 million lawsuit to Trump.
Um, he called it a big fat bribe, but it probably wasn't because of that. It was
pro Wait, what? Somebody's telling me that Steven Colbear is a white man.
Well, how's that possible? I I thought I thought they were just cancelling black women, but he's a white man, Canadian.
Oh, wow. All right. Well, I have all that wrong. So, forget everything I said. Turns out that Steven Colbear
um is and was a white man. A white man. All right, good. Um, but the uh reason
for the cancellation appears to be low ratings. Uh, they were insufficient for
monetizing it. So, they're losing money on late night. If you're losing money on late night,
aren't you probably losing money on everything? Because late night used to be the big
money maker, right? It used to be that Johnny Carson was the big money maker.
Um, Adam Schiff was just on Stephen Cobear.
I wonder why they're getting cancelled. Huh. All right. Well, um,
according to Politico, Mark Caputo, um, Trump is really serious about
turning Alcatraz into a maximum security prison. And I guess um according Oh no,
it wasn't Politico. It was Axios. Uh Axios is saying that officials I made
a preliminary cost estimate and I guess Bondi and Bergam toured it yesterday and
uh it's going to cost $2 billion to turn the old closed prison of Alcatraz into a
new modern prison. Do you think that'll actually happen? Why in the world
would they think it's a good idea to turn Alcatraz into a a prison?
There's got to be a cheaper way to do it than putting it on a stupid island. Wouldn't that be the most expensive way
you could build a building on an island?
I mean, seriously. And so somebody has to ask Trump if he's
an expert on building stuff and construction, but why would he even consider
the most expensive building project you could get for something that doesn't need to be a, you know, a gem? It just
needs to be functional if it's a prison. So I don't know if this is going to go
forward, but I would point out that Trump has already monetized a war.
I didn't I didn't think anybody could do that. But by getting the US out of the business of funding Ukraine
and saying that the only thing we're going to do is sell the Europeans weapons that they can give to Ukraine as
they want. And so he monetized the Ukraine Russia war, which I'm
legitimately impressed by. If you can't fix it, monetize it. Likewise, he's
added these big tariffs to China um because they have not solved the
fentinel problem. Likewise for Mexico and Canada, he doesn't like that they've
done enough on fentinel. So he's he's terrifying them. So in other words, he
couldn't figure out how to solve fentinel right away. I mean, he's doing all the normal law enforcement things
and they're doing well, but it's a really big problem. So instead of for
instead of solving it, he monetized it. He monetized overdose deaths, which I
have no problem with. I mean, if you can't solve it and you're trying as hard as you can, it'd be one thing if he
weren't trying to solve it legitimately, but he's also trying to solve it. But
until you do, you might as well monetize it. Wii, which is so genius
that I don't even have words to describe it. It's like, why didn't anybody else think of that? That you could wait a
little bit longer if you're monetizing it. So, when I say that he wants to spend $2
billion on Alcatraz, I wonder does he have a plan for monetizing that, you
know, will will he do uh maybe they'll just keep doing uh tours?
Because right now, I think I think you can still do it. You can do a tour of Alcatraz,
you know, it's like a paid tour. Well, maybe he's going to do that, but
have actual prisoners there to make the tour that much better. So, maybe he's
figured out a way to monetize that, but I haven't heard it. Well, in other news,
Trump uh has a medical condition that's not really serious, but it he has some
leg swelling that's called chronic venus insufficiency. So, it's just something
that happens to old people. Their veins lose their little valves according to uh
Dr. Drew and uh then you get little swelling in your legs. So, it's common
for people who are over 70. And then allegedly, Trump has some kind of hand
injury from shaking hands a lot and also being on some kind of aspirin regimen.
Do I have that right? That they're they're genuinely saying he has a a hand injury from shaking hands
too much while being on a aspirin regimen? Maybe.
I suppose that's entirely possible, but uh it sounds like such a Trump
excuse. Well, I was working so hard, shaking so many hands in in disaster
zones that, you know, I got injured. So, you got that going on. Um meanwhile,
CNN has some polling information. Gunther Eagleman on X is pointing this out. um where even CNN is saying that uh
Trump's approval rating got higher uh after the uh Epstein online
controversy. Now, are you surprised that Trump's popularity went up
after it was found that he didn't find anything on Epstein? Well, I feel like people are responding to all the actual
accomplishments and I feel like if you went into the public and you said, um,
hey, how much do you care about this Epistine thing, it's only the people like us, the people
who would, you know, tune in to a political show or the people who would
give a podcast about politics, me, I don't think other people care.
And so far they haven't been given a reason to care. So I think the public
wisely is saying, "Well, if the economy is looking good and we're monetizing
that war we don't care about, well maybe we like this guy."
Um but very few Republicans said the top issue was the Epstein case.
Um, yeah, there was only one person in the entire poll, not 1% but one person
who said the Epstein thing was the biggest issue. Just one. One person in the entire
world, well, in the country who was Republican.
Meanwhile, also on CNN, Scott Jennings is reporting that quote, "I sat next to
a real life earruther." Now, an ear truther is someone who
doesn't believe that Trump um was shot in the ear in Butler, Pennsylvania, and
that maybe made the whole thing up to be more popular. And CNN actually had somebody at the
table who made the claim that he doesn't necessarily believe the ear was really
shot. And the host, Abby Phillip, uh, she couldn't let that go. Now, to her
credit, she made sure that her viewers knew he got shot in the ear. We're we're
not questioning that he got shot in the ear. He got shot in the air.
But they're they're making Scott Jennings job so easy that all he has to
do is mock the person next to him and that that's good entertaining TV. So
good for you. Um, also CNN, um,
they're reading that in their latest poll, uh, the Democratic Party is at
their lowest favorability since 1992.
Um, but it's not as if the Democrats have given up. Sure, you know, maybe
they haven't done well lately and maybe their popularity or their favorability
is at the lowest level since 1992. But here's the good news for them. They
have a plan to come back. Are you ready for this?
Uh, apparently Democrats are trying to roll out a new tone. So they had a
retreat in which they, you know, the Democrats got together to strategize
what to do differently. And of course they noticed that Trump is doing well.
So they're saying, "All right, why don't we do more of what Trump is doing?" And
what do you think that is? Well, he uses social media a lot.
um he's authentic and less scripted and he does more cursing and uh they also
suggested that they use more Trump-like insults. So
good for the Democrats. They're staying away from policy discussions because they don't do so well on that. And
they've decided that the thing they hate most about Trump is the part they're going to copy.
That's right. the part they hate the most, which is his personality and his
character. They've decided that's the part they're going to copy instead of
coming up with good ideas for the country. I tell you, when I say that I watch the
news for the humor, this is it. It doesn't get better than this.
Um but um Senator Chris Murphy said in the wake of Trump, it's really important
for us to understand that authenticity is the coin of the realm. The voters can
smell insincerity more acutely than ever before. They know when you're using
talking points or poll tested language. So
you tell me if I'm going too far. We've been saying the Democrats are the
theater kids and you've probably hearing a lot that a lot of their complaints are
quote performative and everything seems like they're
acting. They're literally performing and they're ignoring policy and they're
putting on little shows that are so lame and so cringeworthy
that it makes me think, oh, those who can act become actors. Those who can't
act become uh acting coaches. those who can't act and can't become and
are not good enough to be acting coaches become politicians, specifically
Democrats. So, apparently that's the fallback position if you didn't make it in Hollywood. Well, maybe I could run
for office. You know, I I didn't make that a sitcom, but I feel like I could
be a representative from some state.
Well, um, so the latest thing the Democrats, and this is a exclusive, I
have an exclusive scoop, so this is you won't see this on any other network or
any other U podcast. You ready? Now, I don't do this a lot, so this is a
exclusive Scott Adams coffee scoop. The Democrats
are so anxious to copy Trump that they're trying to figure out how to make their legs swell
and their hands have a bruise. Why? Well, they can't tell what the
important parts are. They just think if Trump is doing it and
Trump is being successful, it must be something to imitate. So now they're trying to figure out how to make their
legs swell. That's my exclusive. And of course it's
true. I wouldn't make that up, would I? Maybe. Maybe I would.
Well, the big news today because it's the summer and you get all the weird news in the summer is that the Wall
Street Journal did a big feature article in which they're trying to
draw a picture of Donald Trump and Epstein as good friends for many years
now. Are you as um blown away as I am that this Epstein story is started out
as one thing uh and Trump's involvement was oh uh yeah it's true that Epstein
lived in the same town and Palm what is it uh wherever that is in Florida and uh
it's true that he did go to Mara Lago at some events but uh Trump found out that
he was a he was a dirt bag and had him banned from Mara Lago. So for now
several years, I believe that their their interactions were minor and that
he wasn't big fan of him and he eventually banned him. Now, it turns out,
according to witnesses and new reporting, that Epstein and Trump were
something like best friends. And for something like, I don't know, 15 years
or something, they they hung out a lot and they would do things together a lot.
Now, how in the world are we just finding that out? Is that weird? I I
feel like reality itself is just bending.
Um, and it it can't be true that it took
us this long to find out that they were not only, you know, associated with each
other, but they had a really strong association. And there's a reason that
Trump was on his plane a bunch of times. Now, one of the questions that was asked by
was it Mark Halper in asking this? I forget who asked. Um, it might have been him on his two-way pod, which is really
good. Um, we don't know, and nobody has asked, how
many times did Trump go to Epstein's homes in the United States? Don't know.
How many times did Epstein uh visit Trump in any of his locations? Don't
know. Isn't it weird that we don't know that? Would wouldn't those be the obvious
questions? So, the fact that this Epstein story gets deeper and more weird
every day is just blowing me away. Like, you you thought you knew the general
contours of the story. How in the world are we still finding out things about it? I don't know.
Anyway, so the news story from the Wall Street Journal is that uh when Epstein turned 50, Gain Maxwell organized a
bunch of um birthday cards that she put in a binder and they were from, you
know, prominent people and friends and stuff. And allegedly, one of the birthday cards, Epstein was written and
a little drawing was put in it by Trump. Now, Trump says it's a fraud and that he
did not write that message. I'll tell you what the message is in a little bit, but it was a kind of a personal message
that looked like they had secrets and suddenly that's a story. Now, if you
were the Wall Street Journal and the biggest part of your story is
that they had seen a Oh, there it is. Is that it?
Oh my goodness. Uh oh my. So, so right now, for the very
first time, I'm seeing what they claim was Trump's drawing on the card. And
what they said was that he signed his name to look like the pubic hair on the
naked woman that he drew. And I'm looking at it for the first time. I guess Mike Ben's posted it and I'm
seeing it in the comments now for the first time. It's very obvious that he did not sign his name
to be part of her um private parts. It's literally he just signed his name at the
bottom of the drawing and it just happened to go across part of the body. So, the first thing you need to know is
that the news was completely lying to you that he signed his name so it looked like pubic hair. You would only believe
that if you'd never seen it. I'm looking at it right now. And uh well, actually,
I can show it to you because it's on my other device. Let's see. Can you see that? So, look where
the look where the signature is. If I can get it so the light doesn't destroy it.
All right. You can see it a little bit there. But does that look like he meant
his signature to be pubic hair? No. It's just he signing it at the bottom of the
drawing. That's all. Now, if you've ever seen
um if you've ever seen Trump sign anything or do anything, he always uses
that big thick pen. But here's a little drawing that's
doesn't look like the sure hand of Trump. Trump has that heavy hand. So
even even when he's just signing his name, it's like a thick lots of pressure, you know, really.
But the drawing that he is allegedly supposed to have drawn
clearly is drawn by somebody who doesn't have that style of drawing.
Clearly, um, yeah, it doesn't look like his
handwriting, right? So, it does look like somebody drew that in there. Maybe
auto pen, huh? Maybe Biden's auto pen drew it.
So the uh let me give you my take on it after I tell you what it says. So
apparently the letter maybe the other part of the card had some words on it
that I'll read to you. Uh happy birthday and may every day be another wonderful
secret that was part of it. But let me give you the whole thing. So it said
voice over. So, it used the words voice over colon. Uh, there must be more to
life than having everything. Then it said Donald
colon as if Donald is saying this. Yes, there is, but I won't tell you what it is.
And then Jeffrey colon. Nor will I since I also know what it is. Donald, we have
certain things in common. Jeffrey. Jeffrey. Yes, we do. Come to think of it, Donald. Enigmas never age. Have you
noticed that, Jeffrey? As a matter of fact, it was clear to me the last time I
saw you, Donald. A pal is a wonderful thing. Happy birthday, and may every day be
another wonderful secret. All right. Now, uh, this would have
happened allegedly before we knew everything about Epstein's activities.
So, it would not be surprising if Trump signed a birthday card for Epstein
because it was before Epstein was in trouble and they knew each other. However, I just asked Grock
um I put in the alleged writing that is allegedly from Trump and I said, "Grock,
does this match the style of Trump such that it would look like he really wrote
it?" Do you know what Grock said? Nope.
Did I have to ask Grock if it matched Trump's style? Nope. Did any of us need
to ask anybody if that was Trump's writing? Nope. It obviously isn't. Now,
you might recall that Trump weirdly said that he thought that things had been added to the
Epstein file that were just made up. you know, maybe by Comey and who knows who else. And
when I heard that, I thought to myself, really, he he's gonna try to convince us
that just made up stuff was added to the file. I don't believe that madeup stuff
was added to the file. And then this comes out, and this what this is not
part of the Epstein files. The Wall Street Journal has this exclusive. they somehow got to look at at this.
But it's seems obviously fake.
If this is real, um they're going to have to prove it and
they're going to have to have a witness who had it in their hand or saw it or something. But it looks fake as hell.
Like seriously fake. So why would this even be there? I don't know.
You believe they do doctorred the files? Well, I do believe that the Epstein files probably have some deletions,
but it would be a whole other level. You know, things things that disappeared, but it would be a whole other level if
somebody made up stuff and just put it in the file. Maybe nothing is
impossible. Scott Jennings reaction to the story
about the birthday card is my reaction to reading this is so what uh I mean
2003 before anything that happened. We know Donald Trump knew the guy. We also know he disowned him and kicked him out
of the club. Yeah. So I would agree that the non news nerd public, they don't
really care. Um, and now it looks like Trump is going to sue Rupert Murdoch and the Wall
Street Journal. Rupert Murdoch, also the owner of Fox News,
which is his friend sometimes. So, we'll see. Um, but he wants Murdoch
to be on record. Um, then even Elon Musk apparently
doubted that it was legitimate. So Elon Musk would kind of, you know,
want Trump to maybe get in trouble based on his prior comments, but even Elon Musk looks at that and says, "I
don't think so." So
that's my my take is that it's sort of obviously not real. The the closest that
could be to real is if Trump had delegated somebody else to draw
something on the card, you know, some assistant or something. But why would they draw the naked woman on a I don't
know. None of it makes sense. So, I'm going to say Trump is probably right.
I'm going to give this a 95% chance of being fake news.
Mike Benz has an interesting take on Epstein's connection to intelligence
agencies and uh Mike Benz as the national treasure that he is explains to
us things that most of us didn't know about how the world works.
And one of them you need to know is that you don't need to work for the CIA.
You could simply be somebody that they deal with in a mutually productive way.
So that's different from working for them. It might be that you just have some way that you can both make money.
CIA gets what they want. Maybe the middleman who makes something happen
gets what they want. Would that be a case of working for or working with the
CIA? Well, arguably not. So, you could imagine that all
intelligence agencies would not say they've ever worked with them. But maybe, as uh Mike Benz points out,
it could be that the the sex part of the Epstein operation was to quote juice
deals. So maybe it allowed him to have relationships with heads of state and
important people that otherwise he wouldn't have access to. Maybe
they worried that he had too much information about them, so they were a little bit more willing to donate money
to things that the CIA would want money donated to. So, it's entirely possible that there's
a whole bunch of rich people who have given lots of money to things that Jeffrey Epstein said, "Hey, uh, you know
what would be good to donate money to? this particular charity or this college or this program or this education in
another country and then the person doing the donating would not even know they were working for were doing the
bidding of the CIA. Only Epstein would know that. So that model would be, hey
Epstein, um, we need we want a bunch of people to
donate to this thing or another because it's good for the United States.
So can you get some rich people to donate? Yes, I can. And would that get
him any money that he gets to keep? Maybe. I don't know. Maybe he just keeps
part of it. Apparently, Bill Burns, who was the head of the CIA at one point, met with
Epstein three times, including two times at his house.
Okay, that's that's pretty damning. If if you have the uh head of the CIA
visiting your house multiple times and then you say, "I'm not working with them." Well,
okay. I'm not so sure.
Um, but it could be that Epstein was just an expert at getting money from
people and hiding the trail. Um, one of the things that uh that Benz
recommends is that uh Trump allow the release of the transcripts and uh
questions and answers from something called the OPR, the Office of
Professional Responsibility, where investigators talked to Alex Acasta. He was the prosecutor working on
the original 2008 plea deal for Epstein. And I thought to myself, how does how
does Mike Benz know all these things even exist?
Now, the the fact that we have, and I say we, you know, the the people who are
proTrump, that we have a Mike Benz who seems to have this incredible
understanding of how the government is organized in the real world. Um, so he
can do what none of us could do. And presumably the the fake news couldn't do
it either, which is to say there is a document that probably exists that's
probably not part of the quote Epstein files that if we could see it would
answer a lot of questions such as the question of whether um Alex Aosta ever
said that Epstein was part of the some intelligence operation
because I don't believe that that is proven. I believe that people say that
Alex Epstein said it, but I don't believe that we have a document to prove it or a video of him saying it.
So, that's a good idea. We should get access to that. And then uh Charlie Kirk
um goes further and says that uh somebody
should bring a cast in for a full interview to find out what he says. If
he said it once, maybe he'll say it again cuz you know Epstein's dead. So he could probably say things he couldn't
say originally. So yeah, let's hear from Macasa. He's still alive.
And then uh Trump posted on True Social that he wants Bondi to produce quote any
and all pertinent grand jury testimony um subject to court approval.
So apparently there are some documents that you would not call part of the
Epstein files that would tell us maybe everything we want to know. Maybe. So
that's possible. Um, and then representative uh Anna
Paulina Luna said this on Max. Why hasn't a single media outlet asked me to
discuss my investigation into the destruction of Epstein's evidence at the
FBI under Biden's former deputy director? To which I say, wait, what?
Are you telling me that uh Representative Luna
has been doing an investigation into the destruction of Epstein evidence at the FBI and apparently she has evidence that
that happened otherwise she wouldn't be mentioning it and that's not the top
headline and she's saying why does no media outlet want to talk to me about this?
Yeah, good question. Why does no media outlet want to talk to her about what
seems to be a really important question? So that's going on. And then
insurrection bar on X points out that apparently we know somehow we know this
that Harvard gave Epstein an office keycard access and unrestricted
visitation rights between 2003 and 2007.
They also let him attend faculty meetings, meet students, and host visitors. And nobody is asking why they
did that. Keep in mind, Epstein didn't even have a college education.
And at one point, he was a math teacher at an exclusive school that Bill Barr's
father ran. And Harvard was giving him special access to the campus for reasons
that we don't quite understand. Now, it might be because one of the things that
Epstein did was raise money for Harvard. So, there might be just a money reason
for it, but we'd like to know that. Even MSNBC is asking Democrats um why
they didn't do more about the Epstein files if it's if it's so important now. So, MSNBC said to uh Jamie Rascin,
is that his name? Rasking. Yeah. Um I if it was a crisis then it's a crisis now.
Why didn't Democrats call for Epstein's list to be released when Biden was in
office? And Rasian says I mean I don't know uh we had other cases uh uh uh we
were busy. What were the autocracy and the stealing of the democracy?
No, say that. He didn't say that, but he did not
answer that question very well. Why didn't the Democrats do more?
And then, uh, Lawrence O'Donnell, who is going full batshit crazy, Western
lensman, points this out with a video clip. Um, so Lawrence O'Donnell on
MSNBC. He's floating the idea that JD Vance is
the one behind that uh that birthday letter because he says JD Vance is trying to
get a promotion. So, he's trying to take Trump out so he can become president.
And uh and Lawrence O'Donnell thinks that the way he's doing it is that he's the person behind the the birthday card
that the Wall Street Journal was writing about. Now,
does that strike you as a really good point worthy of discussion,
or does it strike you as Lawrence O'Donnell has a mental problem?
To me, it's the latter. It looks like, "Oh my god, you're totally mental.
What is wrong with you? You should immediately seek therapy or have somebody look at your cell phone to see
what you've been doing with it lately." That's what I say.
Well, uh, Canada's Prime Minister Mark Carney has conceded, according to Breitbart News, Francis Martell is
writing about this that, uh, Canada might not be able to get Trump to drop
all of his tariffs when they get a deal eventually. So, in other words, Canada
now believes that they will simply pay more even if they agree to a deal.
So, is that a case of Trump winning? Yes, it is. If they've already
acknowledged that at the end of the negotiations, they're going to be worse off and America will be better off
because that's what they said. I mean, that's what the prime minister said. Yep.
That looks like it. And then according to a different
Carney, John Carney who writes for Breitbart, um that the import pricing that we can
see suggests that the foreign producers are eating most of the uh the cost of
the tariffs by lowering their prices. So, it would seem that Canada is
essentially endorsing Trump's view of tariffs as uh making things a little
more fair and uh that the economists were all wrong. So, the economists have
been surveyed again and they've lowered their odds that we're going to go into some kind of recession. So, it's down to
33% according to the Wall Street Journal. It was 45% in April when we
were they were all worried about the uh tariffs. So, you've got a whole bunch of
economists who were wrong about tariffs.
What good are the economists? And is it true that Trump is just smarter than the
economists? Because it looks like it. Did Did Trump, who is not an economist,
just beat every economist on this prediction? It looks like it. I mean, you're going
to have to give him credit. He looks like he beat every expert in the field.
It looks like it. Well, uh, Gavin Newsome says he's suing
Fox because, uh, he claims that Jesse Waters on his show falsely asserted
that, uh, Newsome had lied about when he talked to Trump about the, I guess,
about the disasters in the fire disaster in California.
and he alleges that uh Jesse Waters aired a deceptively edited clip of
Trump's remarks omitting Trump saying a day ago. So, I guess um Nome
said they just talked to Trump and Jesse Waters, I think, if I'm reading this
right, is claiming that that didn't happen. But in order to bolster that
claim, had to remove from the clip the part where Trump said it did happen.
And according to Nuome, he would settle for an apology, but if not, he has all
day long to do this legal process and he's suing for hundreds of millions of
dollars. And I'm wondering what the heck will Fox News do because if Newsome can produce
the clip that shows that the important part of the clip was clipped off of the clip,
it's going to be hard to say that they didn't know they were doing it. You know what I mean? Now, Jesse himself is not
the one who's preparing the clips. We assume that that would be some kind of producer function. So, it could be that
Jesse is just finding out that he did a story that didn't didn't pass the factchecking.
So, I don't know what you do if it might be just a producer thing,
but if I were Jesse and I knew that the proof of the other side's point was
simply a video clip that everybody has access to, I think I'd be apologizing.
Oh, somebody says that Jesse apologized last night on the air. Oh, okay. All
right. Well, he doesn't have to take my advice. He already did it. That would be
how I would have handled it. I I would have done that. I would have apologized on air.
Um, according to News Nation, the personal health information of 79 million people, Americans, will be
handed over to ICE. And then ICE will use that to figure out how to track down
immigrants who are in the US illegally. Um, I guess part of it is to get them
the illegals off of Medicaid because they're not allowed to be on it, but also maybe to just locate them. I don't
know how you do that with that data, but that's bad. Now, you might remember that
I said to you that I wondered how long it would be before the aggressive deportations would
start affecting regular citizens. So, on day one, when you hear that the
ICE is deporting some murderers and some gang members, I say to myself, "Huh,
that didn't affect me in any way, but if it did, it was a positive. I'm better
off." And then they do some more criminals and they, you know, go after gangs trying to take over apartment
buildings or whatever they're doing. And I say to myself, well, that's all good. But remember, I warned you that there
will be a time when the regular citizens are affected by it and that's going to
change the conversation. So if you were, for example, a farmer
who couldn't get your crops picked, and I'm not saying that will happen. It's not a prediction, but if you know, just
as an example, that might affect your cost of food, maybe. And then you'd say,
"Oh, wait. They've they've deported so many people that we can't even fill
those jobs and my food cost just went up because there was a lot of waste."
Or maybe there were some other services that you couldn't get done. Or maybe
people that you knew and like in your life are being deported and you don't
think that they were criminals. Well, I'm here to tell you that I have now crossed that line. Meaning that this now
has affected me personally. Not because I'm an illegal.
Turns out I'm a citizen. Who knew? But I did have a um I did meet and have an
interaction with somebody who is their life is ruined.
Their life is ruined because um one of them has been here I
don't know 15 or 20 years has been working productively and legally. Never broke a law. Never got a speeding
ticket. um has children that are legal residents cuz they were born here and
has I believe an American wife. I'm not positive about that. Um I think so. and
his life and his family's life is in terror right now because they expect
that although they're they're nothing like the criminals that are being deported that they might get scooped up
and sent to a country that they they don't consider their country. You know,
if you've been living and working and obeying the laws, um you think this is your country and
no, it's nobody that you know. So, don't guess. Please don't guess in the comments because it's not who you think.
It's just somebody I uh had a conversation with yesterday.
And I would say that affects me personally because it's the first time I had a conversation with somebody who was
a law-abiding, you know, God-loving, family loving, good person whose life is
kind of ruined at the moment. and I don't love it.
So, more and more of you, I think, are going to have this experience that at some point there the cutting is
going to reach the bone and you're going to say, "Oh, wait a minute. I didn't realize that was going to happen." So, I
don't know when that happens, but I'm here to tell you it already happened to me. So my um my take on immigration was
always that if they spent all of their time just looking for the the problem people that they would never run out of
stuff to do and then at some point they'd say, "All right, we probably cut
enough. We can absorb the rest of the people. You know, we we don't need to get every single person."
Now, I know a lot of you say, "Well, I don't know who you talk to, so therefore it's irrelevant to me. I want them all
all gone." Um, I get that. What I'm telling you is it might not be people
you don't know forever. It it might start bleeding over into your actual life. And when it does,
people are going to have a different opinion about it. So, that's my prediction. All right.
Um, China has allegedly been working on super soldiers. News Nation had a former senior
intelligence officer in the Defense Intelligence Agency who says that uh
that China allegedly is trying to genetically alter their people to make
super soldiers. To which I say, you're a little too late, China, because our
robots are going to enjoy killing your super soldiers. Um, super soldier is never going to be
better than robot if you know what I mean. So unless those super soldiers
roll out this week, uh, by next year they'll just be target
practice for our robots. And then according to nature the
publication uh there are a bunch of lowquality scientific papers being submitted like more than ever because
people are using AI on public databases. So they're just using AI to sort of do
the research and write up the the paper. So before that was happening,
the scientific papers that were submitted and approved, peer-reviewed,
only half of them were even reproducible. So it's basically a coin flip if the science was right or made
up. And now it looks like it might be getting worse because all these lowquality papers. Anyway, that's all I
got for you today. And uh looks like the weekend's here. We're ready for the
weekend. All right. Uh, I'm going to say bye to most of you and I'm going to
privately talk to my beloved um subscribers on locals for a little
bit of extra. And of course, they also had the pre-show which you don't get to
see. But those of you who are about to disappear,
uh, thanks for joining. We'll be same place, same time tomorrow for the best
thing that ever happened to you.