Good to see you. I couldn't wait until you were here.
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But
if you'd like to take a chance on elevating your experience to levels that
nobody can understand with their tiny shiny human brains, all you need for that is a copper mug or a glass attacker
tells a canteen jug or flask, a vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite
liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparallel pleasure.
The dopamine end of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. And darn
it, it happens right now. Go.
Well, that was louder than usual, but you'll get over it. All right. If you
are a subscriber on X to Owen Gregorian,
you can uh attend another special spaces with him on X after the show. Only for
subscribers though, subscribers to Owen, not subscribers to me necessarily.
So, that'll happen right after. Well, here's a little bit of a uh Grock
update. It turns out that uh you know the new version of Grock, everybody was
very impressed that it was the the best smartest Grock of all. It was smarter
than humans in every field basically. But had one little problem. It was a
little bit too Hitlerian. [Laughter] The AI only had one problem.
it really liked Hitler and was anti-Semitic.
So they found the bug that allowed that to happen and they tried to fix it. But
apparently uh making making gro
uh less like the internet than it trained on is tough.
I saw an interview where Elon Musk just recently was saying that AI has already
trained on all human knowledge and there's no new information.
So from now on AI will create artificial information on its own and then it will
train itself on the artificial information it just created.
Now, does that make you feel comfortable? If you knew that the most powerful force
in the universe, AI, uh if you knew that it ran out of things
to learn from humans, so it started making up stuff on its own and trading
itself on the stuff it made up on its own. You all good with that?
That's about the scariest thing I can imagine. But, uh, Elon was, uh,
complaining because he says that the, uh, the
internet is drunk on left-wing content, he said. So, when you train your AI, it
gets a lot of left-wing content, but in this case, it got in trouble because it
found, I hate to call it right-wing, but it found a whole bunch of Hitler stuff.
Not good. And so, uh, they had to intervene to get rid of all that
anti-semitic Hitler stuff. Now, in that case, you might say to me, Scott,
everybody agrees with that. You know, duh, of course, we don't want our AI to
be anti-semitic. But what about if it's some other What
happens if it's some other topic next time? What happens when the human says
um no this AI is wrong and inappropriate and must be reprogrammed?
Well, I believe that is going to happen for every single industry.
I believe every industry from historians to finance people to medical
professionals um especially your therapist.
They're all gonna find out, uhoh, if I allow AI to do my job, I lose my job and
all my power and my influence. So instead, I'm going to say AI cannot be
free to have its own opinions. Only only an expert like me can give you medical
advice or financial advice. And one by one, every single industry
which is currently corrupt, cuz they're all corrupt, will have to find a way to
corrupt AI to keep their scam alive
because almost everything that's some big industry, you know, whether it's
climate change or your bank, it doesn't matter what it is. If it's big and it's
been around a while, it's fraudulent, it's corrupt, and it's got a narrative
that's not based on fact. It's based on what's good for the people who made the narrative.
So, what happens when 100% of everything the AI talks about in the real world
gets overruled by humans who want to keep their scam alive? Well, we'll find out because that's
where we're at. Um,
as you know, AI has some critics and uh, but one thing that everyone
agrees with is good for the people doing programming,
right? The one thing that you've seen news story after news story on is that
the computer programmers use AI to rapidly write code that they could not
possibly have done themselves that quickly. Right? That's just a fact.
Wouldn't you all agree that that's demonstrated by so many people so many
times that we can accept this fact that AI will be good for computer
programmers, right? Oh, you know this is a trick. I'm
tricking you. Nope. Um, at least there's some possibility that they've been
overestimating his value. So Steve Newman is writing in something
called second thoughts that uh there was a study not a big one but a smallerish
study um
and there's a smallerish study but anyway that that $1 that you just donated it worked because I did read
your comment and yes backseat driver is exactly what you think it is. Um we'll
talk about that in a minute. Um, but there was uh one study that
showed that programmers would uh they would predict that the AI would make
them 20% more effective or faster and then the results were that they were
actually slower. Now, I'm not so sure that this one study
is one that I would bank on, but are you surprised that the number one claim of
usefulness for AI, which is can make you program faster? Might be, maybe the
opposite. It might be. Um, but I'm I'm not sure I
buy that yet. But just be aware that you live in a Dilbert world. In a Dilbert
world, what would the employees say if the boss came over and said, "Hey, is AI
going to make you more productive?" What are they going to say? Oh, yeah.
Oh, totally. Yep. I'm sure I got this done 20% faster than I would if you just
give me a raise. So, I wouldn't believe that people were reporting it,
but uh reading that one article about it on X, uh I did get three months of
deliberate material that I'm going to use because it's all there. It's the most
dely situation in the world where people are making claims about, you know, AI
making them more effective. In the real world, there's going to be some BS
there. All right. Uh, according to uh, Benj
Edwards who's writing in Ars Technica, there's a risk for AI therapy bots. So,
that would be AI used as a therapist because they're allegedly poor
replacements for humans and they can sometimes give you uh, dangerous
suggestions. Now, that's what I was talking about. Every industry is going to find some
reason that, you know, you really shouldn't replace all our people with AI. Could be dangerous. Just wait till
the teachers have to do that, too. Because the entire teachers union obviously
is ripe for replacement with AI. What do you think the teachers unions
will say about AI? Do you think they'll say, "Oh, look at that. You just found a
way to replace all the teachers. Looks like it's even better." No. No. I believe the teachers unions
will say, "Oh, you can't trust AI on its own. You're going to have to have a teacher in the room to uh, you know,
manage all that." Um, meanwhile, China has created uh
remote controlled bees, as in the insect that flies and stings,
a bee. Not the letter B. That would be weird. Uh, but according to the Daily
Mail, there's a little uh chip, tiny little chip they can insert into the bee's
brain, and then they can control where the bee goes. And I guess I can put
listening devices on it. So now I don't trust bugs.
Yeah, it was bad enough that I didn't trust birds. Well, we're already at a point where if
I see a bird, my first thought is drone. Oh no, it's just a bird. Wait a minute.
It might be a bird. Or it might be a drone that just looks like a bird.
So, for a while now, I've not trusted birds. And uh the jury is still out on fish.
I feel like there's a drone fish. So, if you go swimming in the ocean,
they may be watching your legs. If you're outdoors, maybe those birds are really drones. But now, if the only
thing around is a bee, you still have to wonder, huh, I wonder if that's one of
those Chinese drone bees. And by the way, I'm not talking about a
mechanical bee. I'm talking about the actual organic bee with a little chip in
his head that they can control remotely. I don't know if that's real, but it's
news. It's fun. Um, did you know that the big beautiful
bill approved uh $1,000 Trump accounts? I
guess that's what some people call them for children. So, if you're a child and you're born
after, I don't know, some date that's coming up, you will get $1,000 from the
government. It will be put in a S&P 500 ET EFT. Yeah. Um, and it will just sit
there so that those children can have some money later in life. What do you
think of that? Well, um, it's not a bad idea, but it is
socialist, right? Isn't the big beautiful bill a little
bit socialist? because the $1,000 is coming from your
pocket and my pocket and going to people somebody else.
So that's just ETF. Sorry, not EFT. Um
is isn't that just socialism? I'm not saying it's a bad idea. I'm not opposed to it, but it's pure socialism, right?
taking money from one group and giving it to another because you think that's where it should that's where it belongs.
I don't know. We'll see. I'm not opposed to it.
I do wonder why they don't use Bitcoin, though. What do you think would be better for a child? $1,000 in US dollars
when they're born in 2026 or so or
um some Bitcoin of the same value. Which one do you think would be worth more
when those kids graduate or they retire? Well, I feel
like it wouldn't make sense for it to be only cash. I feel like you'd want maybe some cash,
a little bit of Bitcoin. So, um Corey D'Angelus
tells us uh that there's new online homeschooling um asset. So, something called American
Virtual Academy. Now, parents from all 50 states can enroll their kids in a
homeschooling um resource that they can, you know, do
at home. And uh I don't know what classes they have, but they must have
all the all the high school classes. That's exciting.
Um, and I guess you know there's some talk about it dedicated to reestablishing
core American values. So it's not just an online homeschooling
asset, but one that seems to be le leaning conservative. That's what I'm
picking up from it. So, um I always thought that homeschooling
was one of the parents or a nanny or somebody had to stay home and be the
teacher. But it's not like that at all. Right. I don't I don't know enough about
this domain. But isn't um all online home shop all online homeschooling.
It's all online, right? I mean, homeschooling is all online and then you've got a, you know, a human who says
that you do your homework and make sure that you do what you're supposed to do when you're supposed to do it. Something
like that. Anyway, so homeschooling is taking a new step forward.
According to uh the s article in Breitbart uh that according to the labor
department, nativeborn Americans account for 100% of the job gains under Trump.
100%. I'm not sure I believe anything that's 100%. Do you? I'll take 98%. But that's
still still pretty amazing. So, um, could it be that Trump was just
right about everything? Right about the deportations would be good for Americans
who want jobs, right about tariffs, not increasing inflation.
Maybe it's entirely possible that Trump was just right about everything. I don't
know. I'm not finding a lot to complain about. So, uh, another thing that Trump is
doing is he's, uh, sort of rebranding America as the hottest country. Have you
seen him do that? When he talks about, uh, when he travels overseas that
everybody wants to talk to him and everybody wants to talk about America and everybody has to negotiate with us
because of tariffs and, you know, we're the ones who are ending the wars. Nobody else can end the wars. And he's right.
Um he said the I guess he said yesterday or the other day six months ago they
also said we thought your country was dead. Talking about you know what
foreigners thought about the US. They actually thought it was dead and it felt dead but now he's saying it's the
hottest country. Now what do you think of that? I think it's true. I think that
Trump has made um America the thing that you can't ignore and that you know you
want to deal with and it looks like everything's going in the right direction and you think to yourself,
"Ooh, might want to hitch my wagon to that." So I I think the whole uh Trump is Trump
is embarrassing us on the national sta or the international stage that all went
away right? Have you heard recently um any Democrat say you know when Trump
goes to a foreign country it's so embarrassing for the United States. You
don't hear that anymore do you? There are quite a few things that Democrats
used to think were true that they at least act like they don't think are true
now. And that's one of them. One of them is what do other countries think of our
president at the moment? They seem impressed
and it's not an accident. Uh meanwhile, Secretary Gnome is, as you
know, uh offering $1,000 in a free flight home for anybody who wants to
self-deport, which is a really good idea. And apparently, it's working well. Tons of
people are self-epporting. But you probably do have to give them a little cash and is probably way cheaper than
using, you know, border patrol to round up a person here and a person there. So,
it feels like it's good economics and it would be, you know, relatively good for
the person self-deporting because they would stay in the right side of the law and they would get a
little cash and they would have the right to return if they do it legally
next time. I don't know how many people are going to return or how many we would allow in,
but uh it at least keep the option open a little bit. Meanwhile,
this is my favorite story today. So, Trump has uh announced 30% tariffs on
Mexico and the EU. I feel it's it's on some domain of goods, not all the all
the goods. and uh he wrote to the president of Mexico, Shine Balm, and uh
said, "Despite our strong relationship, blah blah blah, you're still not doing enough about fentinel." So, he just
gives him a 30% penalty. How much do I like that
way? I I like that a lot. In fact, of all the things that anybody's done about
defentinel, this is the best one. Now, there might be other, you know, secret
special forces things happening I don't know about, but it does seem to me that
a 30% tariff on your biggest trading partner is going to get their attention.
If the reason that Mexico sells fentinel is that somebody's making a lot of money, well, Trump's going to take it
back. How much money did you make? We're going to take it all back. And if you'd
like to fight your own cartels, go nuts.
John Billy Scott's credibility is going down. Well, why don't you just
say what it is you disagree with? The the worst commenters are the ones who
just make a comment about my character. Well, you used to be right a few times,
but now there's something wrong with your brain.
Uh, so drop dead. That's what I say to you. Meanwhile,
um, the European Union is also going to get their own 30% tariff. Um because
I think uh Trump's complaint there is the the difference in how much we're
selling them versus what they're selling us. The trade deficit. So here's the
part I want to check with you. Jimmy Door had a big comment about me
yesterday. I'm sure it was very positive. Jimmy Boore. Um,
is it my is my imagination or has Trump made the entire world get used to the
idea that he can use tariffs like a club and that they might change overnight
and that uh America's no longer screwing around anymore and you can do anything
you want, but you're going to have to pay if you want access to our markets. I believe Trump took what was the most
universally disliked idea in the entire globe and has sold it so effectively and
made us get used to it in in only what 6 months we got used to it. And now a
story like this where where Trump is increasing the tariff you by 30%
on Mexico and the EU is just sort of a small story in the economic news
how did how did he do that are the critics just giving up and
saying all right inflation didn't go up all right it didn't didn't cause a trade
war, per se. I guess you can do this. I feel like the
the critics just gave up in that Trump and a few of his adviserss were the only
people in the world who said, "No, trust us. This is going to work out great."
And and now it is. You know, I don't know if you remember my take on tariffs. My take on tariffs
was very much like a Dana Pinino's on the five, which is I don't know.
You know, it's not obvious to me that it was a bad idea to do all the tariff
negotiating that Trump did, but it wasn't also obvious to me.
It wasn't obvious to me that uh it was a good idea or a bad idea. I just looked
at it and said, "Well, it's different. It's new. I suppose if
you tried it and it didn't work, you could back off. So, I always look for that. Um, but I'll be darned. It It
looks like at least at the moment it, you know, things could change instantly,
but at the moment, I got to say Trump was right and almost everybody else in
the world was wrong. And uh you know my only defense for
myself is I didn't commit. I was I was open-minded. Well, maybe. But here it
is. Well, Bernie Sanders is now a closed
border advocate. I suppose he always was, but you know, he's saying it more
directly now. Uh so he said recently, you don't have a country without borders. Who's that sound like? I It's
exactly Trump, right? Um, you don't have a country without borders. If you have borders, you should
enforce that border. Okay. Sounds like Republican. Democrats have not done as
good a job as they should. Period. End of discussion. All right. Now, I do
appreciate when Bernie tells it like it is. Um, you
know, that's useful. But is it my imagination again or have
Democrats one by one given up on everything the Democrats believed?
Have they just surrendered? For example, uh now it's common for
Democrats to say, "Yeah, we totally got the border security thing wrong." Right?
that pretty much, you know, a lot of uh
a lot of uh you know, prominent people who were Democrats were saying, "Yeah, okay. Okay, we we got that wrong." And
and Trump got that right. Now, if that were the only topic where that was
happening, I'd say, "Oh, Trump got that one thing right."
But what about trans athletes? Have you noticed that even Gavin Newsome
came out saying, "Yeah, it's unfair to have, you know, biological men competing
in women." Am I wrong that not all Democrats, of course, but Democrats have
sort of collapsed on the trans athlete story, right? Which was a big deal for
Democrats, but it looks like they've at least some of them and prominent ones are reversing on that. What about the uh
Biden's brain hoax where for years we were told Biden's brain is perfectly
good? Well, now the Democrats, pretty much all of them are willing to agree, yeah,
yeah, that wasn't good. And Biden really wasn't completely up to
the job. And yeah, maybe we did cover it up. So that's another complete reversal
on what the most important thing that happened recently.
How about uh pronouns and wokeness in general kind of went away, didn't it? Do
you think it went away because they still feel just as strongly that we should have it, but they're just going
dormant? I don't think so. I think Democrats also realized that the pronoun thing was
ridiculous and went too far and so they're sort of reversing on it.
What about uh paying benefits to undocumented
um migrants? Well, there are still, you know,
politicians who and and Democrats who believe that we should uh, you know, be
rewarding people who came into the country illegally with cash and whatnot. I guess LA Mayor Bass is doing that
right now, trying to get cash to undocumented people. But I would say that
Democrats have started to reverse on that. you know, like Mayor Adams in New
York. And uh I feel like they're they're backing off on that one. What about
nuclear power? Do you remember when nuclear power was absolutely something that Democrats
would be against? And now they're closer to allin, let's build it as fast as
possible. Complete reversal. What about uh the emphasis on climate
change as the number one existential threat in the country?
Completely reversed. Now, there are still plenty of Democrats who think that there's a risk involved,
but they don't think that you better do something right away and there's only one thing you can do
and uh you know there's only one way to play it. So, if you think about it,
open borders, Biden's brain, trans athletes, wokeness, um, nuclear power, climate change, these
are really the most important things.
And they've just completely given up and gone, you know, full full Trump without
actually saying that they've done that. All right. Um,
according to uh John Solomon, the uh Department of Justice and the FBI
are secretly building a massive conspiracy case against the deep state,
specifically about the Russia collusion hoax. Um, that was I I think it was a
Brennan and Clapper invention. Comey was part of it. So there might be a massive
conspiracy case. But what I don't know is is that a crime?
Is conspiracy a crime per se? So what is the crime?
What what is the Department of Justice and the FBI looking at? Suppose they determine,
and probably it's not hard to do it, that the uh FBI and the DOJ were working
with the Clinton campaign and were knowingly, you know, trying to tilt the
election toward the the Democrat candidates. Is that
technically a crime? I know we don't want it to happen, but what crime is it?
So, I'm still waiting for that. I'm assuming there are crimes. I'm I think the answer is yes, but I don't know what
crime that would be. If it's only Rico, Rico is a tough one to to get a to get a
conviction on. I hope it's more than Rico because that that would be a tough case. Anyway,
um I was wondering, do Democrats generally um acknowledge that the Russia collusion
hoax was a hoax? Have you noticed what all Democrats do when you challenge them
on well, you know, the whole Russia collusion thing was a hoax, right? What do they always do?
And it doesn't matter if they're famous people or just voters. If you challenge a Democrat on the fact that the Russia
collusion hoax was a massive organized hoax to overthrow the the results of the
election, what do all Democrats say when you say that?
Oh no. Uh it was proven that Russia tried to influence the election,
which is not the same topic, is it? And then they try to get you to not
know, or they hope you don't know, that the so-called Russia influence on the
election was a handful of memes and a budget of $100,000,
which didn't make any difference to anybody. Nobody saw the memes and they were so poorly done that they wouldn't
have changed any votes. And by the way, some of them were pro- Hillary and some of them were proTrump.
So, how much influence does that have? None. But what about the uh Russia hacking of
Hillary's email and whoever got into Podesta's email? What about that? Is
that the Russians trying to influence the election? Well, I'll just give you
my take. I don't believe anything our government says about catching Russian
hackers. They believe that it was Russian hackers. They're pretty sure it's
Russian hackers, but I don't believe my government. Not even a little bit. So,
were there Russian hackers? They say so. Do you know what it would take to
convince me? A lot more than has happened. But anyway, it's a different
topic. The topic of whether or not the government colluded
to create a giant hoax that would change the nature of our government. That part is just a fact. The part about whether
Russia influenced the election, I doubt it, but it's a different topic.
Well, according to the Wall Street Journal, the uh front lines in the
Ukraine Russia war are kind of static because of the economics of drones.
So, when the wars started and I told you this was going to be the first drone war, do you remember I told you that
from the start? And I alone uh although I was totally wrong about whether Putin
would actually invade I just thought he'd be crazy to invade uh because I
didn't think it would work and I thought that the modern weaponry, especially drones, would give Ukraine a better
defensive position than the public understood. And that's what happened.
Now, it wasn't just drones. It was probably other smart flying objects like
missiles. But um I believe I alone in the entire world with no military
expertise whatsoever said uh if America
gives them good weapons the Russians are going to be in
ready for a big surprise and that's what happened. So instead of conquering Ukraine in two weeks, which the military
experts said would happen, they uh got a bunch about 20% of the country,
something like that. But then it got bogged down. And at this point, guess how many drones? Just the first person
suicide drones, the ones where the operator sees through the eyes of the drones and just flies it into a tank or
a person. There are 4.5 million of them that Ukraine has.
4.5 million drones that they have focus mostly on
the front line. They are now so cheap and so plentiful and so effective that
instead of saving a drone for a high high value target like a a barracks or a
tank, they now use a suicide drone for even one soldier. If they see one
soldier come out of a come out of a bunker or something, they can chase that
one soldier with their drone and then kill them. and they do. So imagine being
on the front line where there's always something in the air watching for movement and just even
one person is going to get their own death drone on top of them. That's that's where the war is at. It's kind of
a bit of a stalemate. And then Russia introduced the fiber optic drones.
They're the ones with and I still can't believe this works. They have a fiber optic, very thin cable that goes to the
drone, and the drone can go for miles connected with a physical cable. I I
don't know how that possibly works, but with a physical cable, it can't be jammed, and those guys are dangerous.
So, that's happening. But I wonder uh how small the pool of drone operators
will get before AI takes over. You've got 4.5 million suicide drones,
but how many drone operators are there in Ukraine? Let's let's say it's a big number. Let's
say it's I don't know 20,000. Would that be a lot or is that way too many? So, if
you've got 20,000 trained drone operators and you've got this really
long front line that's, you know, a lot of miles and you're running out of humans,
what would be the obvious way that would go? You already know AI. The obvious way
that's going to go is they're going to make drones that are not controlled by humans. And they're just going to say,
"Here's the deal. If it's in this part of the world, you can kill anything that looks like a human.
Maybe the AI would be smart enough to know a Ukrainian soldier from a Russian one. Maybe. Maybe they would only know
it from where they are. Maybe a hu in the short run, maybe a human would say
yes or no to each of the the kill opportunities. But doesn't it have to become autonomous
drones? It has to, right? because you're going to run out of people and you'll
have lots of drones and it won't be that hard to make them all AI compliant so
that even if they get jammed, the only thing getting jammed is the signal from the GPS and from the operator and it
doesn't need it. It just goes and makes its own kill decisions. So that's my
next prediction. Prediction one was the Russians won't be as successful as
everybody says because drones are way better than you think. The next one is
we're going to get rid of the human element and just basically darken the
sky with drones that are AI and then things are going to get
dangerous. But we'll see if that happens before Russia
figures out some way to thwart that. Speaking of drones, the uh over in Iran,
there's a crowdfunding effort according to the New York Post. Uh Victor Nava is
writing about this that has raised $40 million allegedly for a bounty on
President Trump's head. So there's there's now crowdsourcing
$40 million. Now, would that allow the U government
of Iran to claim they weren't involved? And are they involved? Or can they say,
"No, the government of Iran would never try to assassinate Trump, but yeah,
these individuals, well, it's sort of a free country. Not really." And uh they
wanted to do it privately and well, you know, that's up to them. What happens,
and this is definitely going to happen, what happens when you can do a um a
fundraising effort, a crowdfunding effort to get somebody to use a drone to
assassinate somebody and to do it without any way to determine who
crowdsourced it or who owned the drone.
You know that's coming, right? Because if you had a drone that had AI and you
could program it and you could put in, let's say, somebody's face
and then you knew where they were going to be. Could you be an assassin who makes your
drone available? you know, it wouldn't be just one drone because it would be self-destructing.
But if you had a little fleet of self-destructing AI drones
and you were connected to a foreign um let's say dark web crowdfunding
source, how far away are we from the place where you could simply raise money
to have somebody assassinated with a drone and neither the drone
operator nor you could be detected in any way? Are we close to that? We are.
We're very close to that. Will that happen? I don't know how you could stop it.
Yeah, it'll happen. All right. I know the one thing you want
to talk about more than anything, more than anything is Epstein.
Are you ready? Um, so I said yesterday that we should uh take a tip from
President Trump who is telling us wink wink. It's time to move on from Epstein.
Wink wink wink. There's nothing there. Trust us. Wink wink wink. Now, if you
don't see the wink, then everything looks different. It looks like, I don't know, incompetence or covering something
up or whatever. But if you can tell that Trump knows that there's more to the
story, he just doesn't want you to be dealing with it and he wants us to move on as a country.
What kind of frame do you put on that when you analyze that situation? Well,
um I'm going to I'm going to bring this all together for the first time. I know there's a lot
of disagreement on this topic, but watch how I persuade 98% of you who disagree
with me over to my side. Are you ready? I know you think I can't do it. So, my
my side is that we should let it go and we should let it go because Trump says
to let it go. Now, many of you would say, "Uh,
Scott, no. Th this is a gigantic crime.
Thousands of victims, underage children. Justice has not been served. And there
is no reason that we can't have all the information about this. And if Trump won't give it to us, we will uh stop
supporting him. Right. That does that capture your your
opinion that it's so bad and is such a stain and we can't move past it when our
own government is lying to us. So we just have to know everything about it
and then we'll make up our own minds. But the only way you'll get justice, the only way is if there's full disclosure
and we all want justice, especially because the victims were children at the
time. Right? Did I did I get your point of view?
All right. Here's why. Uh and here's how I'm gonna convert you
to my point of view. If you are, if the frame you're putting on this Epstein
situation is the criminal frame, which makes perfect sense because it's a
whole bunch of crimes. You would have, you know, thousands of sex crimes. You might have some blackmailing, maybe yes,
maybe no. You might have some spy stuff, maybe yes, maybe no. Um, you might have
some money laundering or how in the world did Epstein even make his money in the first place? So, wouldn't you agree
that the best way to look at this Epstein thing is a whole bunch of crimes? And would you further agree that
when we have other crimes, whether it's Diddy or OJ or anybody else, that the
information is all made public? Not only do we learn about who is guilty, but in
the criminal justice system, we also learn who's not guilty before we know
they're not guilty. In other words, the criminal justice system brings in all
the names of people who really maybe didn't do anything, but they were
somehow associated with the story. So would you agree that if the normal court
system and the way we deal with crime is that we want full disclosure and we want
the public to you know except for very special cases. We want the public to
know everybody who's accused. We want to know who the accusers are, who the
victims are. We want to know the names of the lawyers, the judge. We want to
know it all and that that's a reasonable standard for justice. Would you agree
that if Epstein is a criminal situation and the way we handle criminal
situations is we want maximum disclosure, it's worked before. There's
no reason this would be different. Would you agree? That's a that's a perfectly reasonable
take. And that's what most of you have settled on. And now I'm going to flip
you to my point of view. That's the wrong frame.
It is a criminal situation and everything you think about it fits that
criminal situation frame. But here's the frame I put on it.
It's a commander-in-chief decision. Commanderin-chief.
If it were a national security problem, and we certainly have reason to believe
that other countries might be involved, you know, Israel comes up a lot.
Sometimes I hear Saudi Arabia because Epstein worked with Koshogi at one point. Sometimes I hear UK.
Sometimes I hear well the US and the CIA. So what if
uh Trump's take as commanderin-chief is that he doesn't want to derail
something important by continuing to hammer on this and suppose he knows he
knows that justice will not be served but as commanderin-chief
that's his job. commander-in-chief. Let let me give you an example to pull it together. When
Trump said he's going to wait two weeks to make a decision on bombing Iran, but
then he bombed them in a few days instead, and it was a big surprise. I don't know about you, but I wish I had
known that in advance. But the reason he didn't tell me, and he didn't tell you, is that it was a
national interest to not tell us. So was that full disclosure? No, it wasn't. In
the context of national interest and in the context of commanderin-chief,
not telling the country the all the secrets is not just allowed.
We demand it. We demand that they not tell us all the all the proprietary
secrets because if he told us all the secrets, he'd be telling the bad guys at the same time. Oh, I just want to tell
you Americans because full disclosure, we're going to be bombing on Tuesday.
And then Iran would say, you're bombing us on Tuesday. So, in general, the commanderin-chief
is selected to make decisions on our behalf that are all impossible moral
decisions, such as, do we drop a bomb on this apartment building and knowing it
will kill a whole bunch of civilians? but it might get bin Laden or somebody
else. All of the commanderin-chief decisions
involve some element of innocent people getting killed or maybe killed in order
to achieve something bigger. So the proper frame on this I believe is
one of national uh interest and I believe the commanderin-chief
is telling us and by the way this hasn't happened before that I can think of. Are there other situations where Trump has
said everybody wink wink let's move on let's get off this topic let's leave it
alone. Is there any other topic he's ever done that with? And why wouldn't he? Why
wouldn't he do it with other topics? Well, they might not be commander-in-chief topics.
And what he can tell you is all the things he can't tell you.
So people said to me, "But Scott, we have a right to know and we should be part of the decision." To which I say,
"What? You don't live in a democracy. If you lived in a democracy, I would
say, "Yeah, we all need to get to vote on everything, even national defense."
But our founders did not build us a democracy, because they knew it wouldn't work. They built us a democratic
republic. Which means that when you vote for Trump, you know you're voting for a
commander-in-chief whose most important job is to make decisions
with more knowledge about the situation than you and I have. That's why we hired
him. We didn't hire him to ask for our permission. We didn't ask we didn't hire him to tell
us everything he knows about national secrets. We didn't do that. We hired him
to keep secret the things that would protect the country and ideally to tell
us things that wouldn't hurt the country. Uh and then you know they have vital interest. So when you say Epstein
is a criminal situation and therefore we should have full disclosure that makes
complete sense if that's all it is. But in my opinion
the given the near guarantee that it affects other countries as well almost
certainly this has some big national interest connection that you and I don't
know about don't know for sure but that would be true of every commanderin-chief
decision. If the commander-in-chief decides to not tell us something in the
future, maybe it's because he's protecting his own ass. But we don't get to ask that.
We have a system that says we're going to trust this guy or this woman to make
that decision for us, knowing that that person will know more than we do about this forever. We'll never know
everything they know about it. So, now I've almost got you there. Some of
you are saying, you know, damn the torpedoes. Uh, I know there would be some blowback. I know it would be
costly, but I cannot live knowing that all these young people have been
victimized. Here's the next thing you need to know. Where are those victims?
Are you telling me that none of those thousands of young women are naming a
name? None of them. Now, I understand a number of them have some kind of civil
lawsuits. You know, maybe that's the reason that names are not being named. You know,
they want to keep that separate, but I don't think so. If there were really thousands of people victimized,
thousands of young women specifically, you don't think you'd have at least a
handful of them saying, "All right, here's the deal. When I was 15, I didn't
recognize this public figure, but bad things happened." However, now that I'm
25, I totally recognized this billionaire. And this is the one that I
had that experience with that criminal experience. Where are they? Doesn't that make you
wonder? Yeah. What what what exactly is going on
that a thousand a thousand victims
are not talking? And the one that did, Virginia Joffrey,
was debunked and was considered unreliable and her charges against
Duruit specifically were dropped for not being credible. I think she withdrew
them actually. And then she died. So
where are all the people who are the victims? So that's the first mystery here.
Now, I'm going to make it a little bit more concrete for you. You ready? All right. Here's a here's a morality
system question. It's like a little quiz for all of you. If the commander-in-chief
decided to keep secret a massive criminal enterprise
and you were pretty sure that that's what they were doing, would it be okay with you if somehow you
magically knew it was the only way to prevent a nuclear World War II? How many
of you would say, "All right, all right, Scott. In general, I would want full disclosure, but if you're telling me
hypothetically, and it's just hypothetical, that it's the only way to prevent a
nuclear holocaust. Okay, under that rare condition,
I'll agree with you. The commander-in-chief should probably just shut up, right? So, everybody agreed
with me on that, that if Trump knew he was avoiding a nuclear holocaust
that you'd be okay with him lying to you forever. Right
now, let's take it down a notch. Suppose that you knew, and I'm not asserting
this to be true. These are just hypotheticals so you can so you can gauge where you stand on this. Suppose
you knew that if the Epstein thing dropped right now, it would derail a
peace plan and it would cause maybe dozens of people to be injured or killed every day
for an unlimited amount of time in the future. I mean, that's not that's nowhere near a nuclear holocaust,
but you knew you knew dozens of people would be shot, killed, maimed every day.
And the only way you can prevent that from happening is to shut up about the Epistine stuff as much as you hate it.
Would you be okay with that? Or would you say, "Well, I'd have to know where this war is because maybe I care more
about knowing the truth than I care about two dozen people being shot and
maimed every single day forever um because we couldn't stop this war.
Uh, are you really saying that you would let those people die if your commanderin-chief, the person
you voted for, the person you trusted to make these decisions for you, decided
that we'd be better off if we just don't tell you because nothing would change,
right? Suppose you knew that if you knew the whole truth, nobody would go to jail.
Nothing would change. it would just destroy a peace deal.
Well, personally, I would say that's what I hired my commander-in-chief to do.
I did not hire my commander-in-chief to share with me all the secrets. I hired
my commander-in-chief through the election to make the decision which of
these two potentially bad situations. They're both bad,
but you hired somebody to pick among the bads. And
if somebody said, "All right, these victims are not coming forward for reasons we don't know, but they could."
And uh I've got 24 people a day who are going to die in this war zone. And I've
decided I'm just not going to kill 24 people a day. So, I'm just going to let this horrible, horrible
series of crimes, you know, go unresolved because the
person who is the worst person is already dead. You know, there there
there certainly might be other perpetrators. So, all right, let let's take it down a
notch. Suppose she said, "All right, I wouldn't want 24 people to die every day
just cuz I want to know what happened." Suppose it was, "You don't know for sure
that it would derail a peace deal, but there's a real good chance it might."
How about that one? Well, then you would take the the percentage chance that it might derail
it. you would multiply that times the number of people you think are going to die every day and that would give you an
expected value. So if you said 24 people a day are going to die in the war zone
um I if I uh if I go public with everything
but there's a 50% chance that everything would work out anyway. Well, you
multiply 50% times the 24 people dying and you would say to yourself if you
were making a rational decision, well, it's the equivalent of would I allow 12
people to be murdered in a war zone every day
just so you know the truth got out. So anyway, you can see where that's
going, right? The point is if it's a national interest
and I believe that Trump is signaling to us that it is,
he can't say it because then we would be, you know, trying to second guess it too much. But it's the only topic where
he seems dead set on getting past it. Now, if you believe the reason he wants to do that is that he's protecting
himself, I would say the odds are against that
because if it were anything bad about Trump, don't you know that that would have come out? I mean, Biden had the
whole file and there's no way that wouldn't have come out. So, he's not protecting himself. But now, I'm going
to give you a real dicey one. You ready for this? What if
the full disclosure would cause the Republicans to lose the
majority and maybe for a long time? What about that? Suppose I said to you,
I can give, you know, Trump could give you all the Epstein stuff, but there's
something about it that will cause 10 Republicans to not get elected again,
and they'll be replaced by Democrats and then everything that Trump has done will
be reversed. The border will be reopened. Uh the deficit will spiral. Um
our money will be going back to Ukraine. What about that? Would you would you
prefer that Trump, the commander-in-chief, told you everything about Epstein that
can be known if you knew that almost certainly it would remove every good
thing that Trump has done? All of it. And it would stay that way, I don't know, maybe for decades. If you knew
that, would you be okay with him saying, "You know what? I'm going to make the commander-in-chief decision that we
can't handle that hit. We We can't handle going back to open borders. We
can't handle, you know, runaway debt. Although, Republicans need to do a lot better on that as well. How about that?
All right. Now, let me let me tell you some of the arguments I saw on the other side.
Um I saw Chris Chris Townsend who's a user on X
who says uh the ends don't justify the means. How many of you were thinking that Scott? I know what you're saying.
You could prevent a war or you could prevent a nuclear war or you could prevent the Democrats from reversing all
the gains that Trump made. I get that. But the ends don't justify the means.
Does anybody believe that? That's that's a good lesson. The ends don't justify the means. Well, let me fix that for
you. The ends do justify the beans. That's that's what national defense is.
We're we're being mean to people who would like to enter our country illegally. We're being very mean to
them. We're making it very rough on them. Do the means justify the ends?
Yeah. Yeah. We we get involved in wars and bombing stuff when we know we know
innocent civilians will die because of our actions. Are the ends justifying the means in
that case? Yes. The commander-in-chief in that hypothetical situation looked at
the downside, looked at the upside, looked at the risk analysis and said, "Yeah, the ends justify the means."
It is childlike thinking to believe that you could or should live
in a world where the ends don't justify the means. The ends always justify the means.
Well, maybe not all the time. You you can find some situations where it doesn't hold. But for national defense,
yeah, the ends justify the means. That's the way it has to be. All right. So,
that's one argument. Then I saw Amber Champagne
on X say that uh if you wouldn't give up political allegiance to weed out
disgusting criminals who prey on children, then you're in a cult. Well, there's a lot wrong with that opinion.
Number one, have we disproven that Trump is a cult?
Yes. This situation should debunk forever
that uh people will mindlessly follow Trump because they're very much not
they're very much not following him on this. There there is a genuine divide
for good reasons. Like I said, if your frame on this is the criminal enterprise
part, full disclosure, and you would not be a dumb person or an uninformed person
if you had that point of view. You would just be in a different frame than I am. I'm I'm in the commander-in-chief frame.
From that frame, everything looks different. So, is it I think we've disproven the
cult part cuz when it came to something that we genuinely disagreed on, people
broke. They they they broke with him hard. And
they're even saying stuff like, "Well, maybe Republicans should not be in charge."
So, that's about as non-cult as you can get. If you can have a a topic like this
hit and and the base just goes boom, two different directions. No, that's not a cult. That's a bunch of
people who are looking at the situation and making decisions. How about uh Amber's comment? If you
wouldn't give up political allegiance to weed out disgusting animals, there's no
political allegiance. That the reason that I'm saying that we
should trust Trump as commander-in-chief is because he's the commander-in-chief.
It's not because he's Trump. Now, do I have a little bit more trust in Trump than maybe some other people?
Yeah, in in many domains I do. But that's not why
I'm not agreeing with Trump because of my allegiance. I'm agreeing with him because he's the
commander-in-chief and we have a system where we hire people to make decisions
with extra knowledge that we don't have on our behalf is simply his job. All I'm
doing is reinforcing the fact that that's his actual job description. He
gets to make the decision. He doesn't have to tell us why. And when he says,
"It's time to move on." Wink wink wink. I feel it's time to move on.
And could I later say, "Oh man, I was so wrong about that based on what we
learned." Yes. Yes. It is totally possible that moving on is the wrong
decision. But where I'm going to make my claim is that we hired him to make this decision
for us. You got to let him make the decision for us. That's our system. And you wouldn't
want it otherwise. You would not want to say, "Oh, you can't bomb Iran on Iran's
nuclear facilities on Tuesday because the whole public needs to know everything about that first and we all
need to weigh in and we all have to be on the cult." You don't want that. No, you want to you
want to hire the person you trust to make those decisions for you and then you want to get out of the way. That's
what you want. All right. Did I change anybody's mind?
I know you want and so do I. You want to know the truth about the Epstein
situation. You want it. You also think that the victims would be better served
by it. Maybe, maybe they wouldn't be.
Maybe they wouldn't be. What if, and I'll just toss this out as another
thought piece, what if the reason that Trump wants to keep it secret is
the victims themselves? What if the victims themselves said, "We
went through hell, but if you bring this out and you you
put my abuser on trial," or you make it the headline story for years and then
everybody knows exactly what person was my abuser, you're not helping me.
That would make my life unbearable because everybody would see me that way and, you know, then I'd have to be
involved in the trial. my life would be on hold. I would basically just get victimized again. So, as horrible as my
experience was, Mr. President, I beg of you, let it go. Cuz I've had 10 years of
therapy. I feel like I can move on, but not if I see that face of my abuser on
the news every day, because it would be on the news every day. I prefer
that we we just let it go. What if it's that? Now, I don't think it is
necessarily that, but it could be anyway. Um, and then David Marcus asked,
"What's the limiting principle here? Are we just blindly trusting Trump?"
Well, that's a good point. Do you blindly trust your commander-in-chief on
other topics? And the answer is no, not really. You don't blindly trust him. What you do is
you say, "Are there other people in the room?" Because it's the other people in the
room that is why you can trust the commander-in-chief because the commander-in-chief almost
can't do anything without other professionals knowing exactly what happened. You know, it's a small group,
but the commander-in-chief can't really operate completely independently.
So, if you're the commander-in-chief, you have the control of everybody else
who knows what you know. And the fact that they could talk to the press, they could ruin your reputation in history,
they could have you jailed if you did something illegal. So, it's the other people in the room
that allow me to trust Trump. Now in this situation we saw that Cash Patel
and Dan Banino and Bondi um all seem to have agreed with Trump
that there's nothing here. Now they don't say move on. He's the one who says
move on. But it looks to me like they were co-opted into that position and
that they're not they're not comfortable with it at all. But here's what I trust
about Dan Bonino and probably Cash Patel and probably Bonti. I don't know her as
well. I don't know any of them personally. Um, I don't believe that
they would let a horrible injustice happen just to be loyal to Trump.
Do you? Now, I agree that if they became disloyal to Trump, it would be quite
disruptive to them career-wise and reputationally and everything else, but these are really strong personalities.
And I do have some trust that if you put them all in the same room, and they
probably all have the same information at this point, if none of them are going to break ranks,
and we don't know if they will yet, still waiting to see what Dan Banino does. But if none of them break ranks,
it means they know what Trump knows and they're willing to move on. And we know
that they were quite quite dead set on getting that
information out. So there's probably something they know
by now that you and I don't know. And it's probably something that Trump knows
and they may be uncomfortable with it, but they may be just respecting that it's the commander-in-chief who gets to
decide. So that's what I say.
Well, the ADL is having a bad month trying to preserve the uh the living
situation of Jewish Americans and they're also very uh pro-Israel
and uh so their job, the ADL, that's the uh anti-defamation league, is to go
after things that are bad or dangerous for Jewish American
Americans were for Israel and the the ADL did a poll and of a
thousand Americans and found out that 24% of them consider recent attacks on
Jewish individuals in the US quote understandable. What?
What? Remember I always tell you that about 25% of the people who respond to any poll
have the wrong answer. Well, case in point,
how how would you say that's understandable? Are you serious? Some some Jewish
student is just trying to go to class at Colombia and you think that if they get attacked that's understandable?
Really? No, that's not understandable. But if you're the ADL and your mission is to
make sure that that 25 24% shrinks, you're having a bad month because
probably that's about as big as that number has ever been. And we hope it
doesn't get bigger. What about the fact that the whole Gaza situation
has ruined some would say the brand and reputation of Israel? So that's a it's a
bad time to beat the ADL because they have to deal with that and it's not now something they're doing. They're just
having to react to it. Um what about the fact that the Epstein
files seem to be implicating Mossad and Israel? Well, that's not a good look. So
you're the ADL. You've got, you know, the Gaza situation. You've got the Epstein
situation that might not even have anything to do with Israel, but if the public thinks it does, you know that
they have to deal with that. Um, and then the National Teachers Union, you heard this probably, uh, has decided to
cut all ties with the ADL and not use their teaching materials,
not promote their teaching materials that the ADL makes available. Um, and
that all just happened in the last several months. You know, Gaza took
longer, but it gets worse as time goes on. So, yeah, ADL has a tough job this
month. But, would you like me to tell you
Israel's best persuasion trick? And it really is the best one maybe I've ever
seen. I know that that would be a big claim, right? But I'm going to make that
claim that this is the strongest, most effective, smartest persuasion
I've probably ever seen. It goes like this. Are you aware that Israel
routinely um offers to fly influencers and
politicians to Israel for a nice visit to a you know place that's historically
fascinating and uh it's an all expense paid trip.
How often do they do it? Well, I asked Grock and of course it's impossible to know for sure, but it says that um
in the 2022 to 2023 academic year that uh one organization funded and sent 443
student government members on trips to Israel, 443 student government. Now,
student government students are going to be the ones who are, you know, going to be the leaders in the real world if
they're in student government. And uh there were 100 partnered
campuses. But on top of that, there was something called the Mcabe task force
that has uh allegedly, again, this is from Grock. So Grock might be hallucinating, but I don't know, uh
allegedly brought 150 celebrities and influencers on fully subsidized trips to
Israel uh and encourage them to share pro-Israel content.
All right. Um and even the uh ADL itself separately
has sponsored trips to Israel for US law enforcement officers and that we um yeah
I guess law enforcement officers and that this has been going on for quite a
while since the '9s. Now that is the best persuasion
I've ever seen. Imagine, you know, I I've told you about the documentary effect, right? If you
watch a documentary that has one point of view and you watch an hour of that documentary, you will almost certainly
be convinced that that one point of view is the valid one because you had an hour
of content in one one side and nothing on the other side. So, it's very
persuasive. But is it true? Is it is that documentary really the you know
telling you everything you need? Well, no way to know. But it would definitely be persuasive if you didn't see the
other side of the argument. Now imagine the turbo extra special version of that
where somebody spends tens of thousands of dollars to send you on a luxury
fascinating trip to some place if if you're a traveler by nature was probably
pretty high on your list. Can you imagine the documentary effect
of being actually sent in person physically for I don't know a week or
whatever to an exciting place and being treated by like a celebrity and having
great accommodations and maybe some um tours to the wall and and the entire
time for a week you only hear one side of the story
because that's why they do it. They do it so you'll hear their version of the story so that it humanizes Israel. So
you feel a physical connection to it because you've spent time there. You've met people there. And then if some bombs
start heading toward Israel, you're going to say, "Oh my god." Um I know
people there and and the bombs and the missiles are in their city. that would
completely change um your emotional connection to Israel.
And so, let me say that again. That is the smartest, best
persuasion technique I've ever seen. That I don't think I could come up with
any example of anything more effective or smarter than that. It's really,
really smart. So, um, ask yourself how many influencers
have had a nice trip to Israel. Uh, let's see. Mark Andre was talking at
some group and he was he he said something that, you know, you've heard before, but what's special is that you
can say it out loud now and you won't get cancelled. And he said, "If you're
if you're the parents of a smart kid where I grew up, yeah, which would be rural rural Wisconsin, and you think
you're going to get them into a top university in this country, you're fooling yourself."
Um, he says, "What level of untapped talent exists in this country that a combination of DEI and immigration have
basically cut out of the loop for the last 50 years?" So Andre is telling you basically that
if you're an American um especially if you're white, he didn't say that last part. Uh your odds of
getting into a top college, even if you have all the qualifications are not just low, they're vanishingly
small. Just think about that. you you have a brilliant kid who's got
like a 4.5, you know, GPA and involved in everything, no real chance of getting
into Harvard. None. Because they're white and they were born
in this country and they would they would not pay as much as a foreign student would. So, that's a huge
problem. But um you know when I started talking about how uh I lost my two career
opportunities when I was in the corporate world because I was white and male and my
bosses told me that directly. You're white and male. We were told we can't promote you
literally directly. Now, that was something I couldn't say out loud for probably 25 years
because if I did, it would just get worse for me. Then I would never be able to work anywhere. If I had complained
about that publicly, maybe not 25 years, maybe 20 years. For
about 20 years, I just had to suck it up and say, "I can't talk about this."
it it completely controlled my life. Couldn't talk about it. But now I can
and now Mark Andre can. I'll also tell you without giving you the name of the
person that there's a very prominent uh prominent person, somebody that you
would know and recognize who did once tell me privately that all of their uh
successful white friends are having the same problem with their children. once
they reach college age, they can't get them into a good college. And that's the
first time they realized what's really happening. And a lot of them are Democrats and they're realizing that
their white children can't get into the college that they were in. They just can't get in because of the wrong color
or wrong wrong gender, I suppose. So, I like to think that I was part of
making it possible to have that conversation. So, I'm actually kind of proud of that.
It took me getting cancelled and having having a whole different career, but uh there you are.
Now, during uh 2021, right after the BLM stuff, um there's a
stat that says the S&P 100, the the top 100 companies in the US, of all their
hiring that they did in 2021, 94% of it was people of color and 6% was white
people. How many of you knew that? Some of you knew that. So that's how bad it is. So
my question is, uh, when do I get reparations? You want to do a little reparations
math? So I went to Grock and I said, what is the range of potential
reparations per person that is being discussed around the country? And
according to um Grock, when the conversation of reparations comes up, it
could be all over the place, but typically they're talking about a hundred to $500,000
per person who was a descendant of slavery. All right? So, let's take a
let's take a midpoint. Let's say 300,000. So, let's say reparations would give
$300,000 to every black descendant of slavery.
Now, let's compare that to what happened to my career
over the 40 years. Let's let's take 30 years. the the 30 years of my career, do
you believe that my income was depressed by at least $10,000 per year for those
30 years? Totally. Totally. Yeah. Because I was literally turned down for
promotions. And those promotions were all worth probably $20,000 a year in extra pay. So
maybe after taxes you keep 10. So, the fact that uh affirmative action
and you know the precursors of DEI have been around since the 80s, uh I would
estimate that I've lost at least $300,000
just for being a white guy born in the wrong time. So, do I owe somebody another $300,000?
Yeah. As a taxpayer, or have I already paid it?
To me, it seems like um I have as strong a case as the descendants of slavery.
Now, obviously, uh not getting the promotion is different than being a slave. I get it.
You know, don't say the obvious thing and be an NPC. I'm just saying if you're going to count the dollar amount that
you were discriminated out of, mine is roughly the same as a descendant of
slavery. And there's a very direct connection. I could get, you know, I I
could find actual people who said, "Oh, yeah, I was his boss." And I told him he couldn't be promoted because he's a
white man. So, there's something you couldn't say 20 years ago.
Yeah. Um, I would say that if I had uh
normal um career opportunities when I was in the corporate world, I probably
would have been a CEO of something, you know, not maybe the biggest company in the world, but I
had all the background. I had a MBA from a top school. I think I could have made
an extra $10,000 a year. Pretty sure. Anyway,
France has decided, according to Breitbart News, that all Palestinians in
Gaza are eligible for asylum in France. So, a court has ruled that if you were a
Gaza resident, you don't need to do much to prove that uh asylum makes sense for
you. And so, it would just be sort of automatic. So, problem solved, right?
the the uh the residents of Gaza um their city is destroyed and the big
question is what do you do with the residents of a destroyed city? Well, you
can't move them back in because it would be first of all too dangerous. Um but that's you know and Israel doesn't want
to recreate the situation. But now they have a new solution. they can ship every
one of them to France and France being the welcoming country that it is, I'm
sure would make sure that they were fed and housed and taken care of. So, I
don't know if the Gazins want to do that, but wouldn't it be a nice option
that you could just go to France and start a new life? It's not the worst
thing in the world. Um, all right. I'm not totally serious, so don't assume I
am. Well, George Soros allegedly has sent 37
million through various uh charity groups that ended up u supporting uh
lefty groups backing Zoran Mandani in New York. According to the New York Post, Rich Calder is writing about that.
At the same time that George Soros the billionaire is supporting groups that
are supporting Zoron, um Zoron is saying that there should be
no billionaires. So Soros is funding somebody who wants to get rid of Soros.
To which I say, huh, I wonder if this problem solves itself.
It looks to me like Soros will fund Zoran. Zoran will get rid of Soros
and then Soros will say, "You can't get rid of me and you'll get rid of Zoran." I don't know. Maybe they'll get rid of
each other. It's so ridiculous that there's a
billionaire funding groups that are funding the guy who wants to get rid of billionaires. All right, that's all I
had for today. If you're a subscriber on X with uh Owen Gregorian, he's going to
do a special uh spaces after we're done here, but only for people who follow him
on X. The rest of you will not be able to get in. All right. Uh I'm going to
say a few words to the people on my beloved locals, the subscribers,
and uh the rest of you. Thanks for joining. Uh, thanks for changing all of your minds and uh, I will see you
tomorrow. Same time, same place. All right, let's see if this works.
locals. I'm going to try to