Everybody, come on in. Grab a seat.
Oops, didn't mean to do that. Does that go away?
Somehow I've promoted one of your comments to the starting page. We might just have
to live with that. There we go. All right, everybody. Come
on in. Grab a seat. Looks like the stocks are down a little bit.
They'll recover. [Music] Let me get your comments working here.
Then we'll have everything we need for the best show you'll see all day.
[Music]
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if you'd like to try to take your
experience up to levels that no one can understand with their tiny shiny human brains. Well, all you need for that
is a copper mug or a glass attacker gel in a canine jug or flask vessel of any
kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the
unparalleled pleasure, the dopamine hit of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the
simultaneous sip and it happens now
perfection. Well, I wonder uh is there any science that maybe they
could have skipped by just asking me? Oh, here's some. According to the u the
journal of brain and behavior, if you give testosterone to Democrats,
they turn into Republicans. Do you believe that? Do you believe that
if you give uh testosterone shots to male male Republicans, I'm sorry, to
male Democrats that they'll turn into Republicans? Well, it turns out that they do,
but it only applies to Democrats who were sort of a weakly affiliated.
So, the people who are strongly affiliated with Democrats, they're not
affected. But if they're weakly affiliated, kind of on the fence, but they're Democrats,
a little bit of testosterone turns them into Republicans.
That's a real thing. Now, do you do you think they needed to
do that study or could they have asked me? Here's how that conversation would
have gone. Scott, we're thinking of testing Democrats to see if they'll turn
into Republicans if you if you give the man testosterone.
And I would have said, "Well, probably not the ones that are hardcore Democrats."
Correct. But I'll bet it would get the ones who have a weak affiliation.
Correct. I would have been two for two.
And here's some more science because you need it badly. Uh, you'll never believe
this, but according to the University of Queensland, and stop me if you've ever
heard anything like this. I mean, this is wild. This is so far ahead of out of
left field. Um, staying physically active will reduce your risk of an early
death. Really? Are they still doing studies to
find out if exercise is good for you? and being physically active. Still, did
somebody actually raise money for that? Um, I'm raising money to study if
exercise is good for your health. Huh. Yeah, I'd really like to know the answer
to that question. How about a million dollars? Okay. All right.
Next time, just ask me. Well, according to the Guardian,
Rachel Hall is writing that uh children allegedly teenagers are limiting their
own smartphone usage um for their own mental health. Do you
believe it? Do you believe that teens are voluntarily
um reducing their own smartphone use? Well, maybe some of them. Um, and it
makes me wonder, is this uh going to be similar to teenagers are drinking less?
Because if you had asked me, I would have gotten this one wrong. Scott, do
you think teenagers will be drinking less in the future? I would have said
probably not. Probably exactly the same as it always was. But no, it turns out that alcohol
use is way down among teens. Could it be that there will be a self-regulating
effect in which maybe it won't even be a cool
thing to do? Maybe you would just seem like you're out of touch if you're using your phone too much. So maybe
Well, here's something interesting. Um, according to the BBC,
there is now a new kind of uh uh eyewear glasses
that will adjust to um the right focus
whether you're nearsighted or farsighted or both. So somehow the glasses look at your
eyeballs and they adjust to whatever it is that you need. So you wouldn't need
bif focals. You would just have one set of glasses and they would know what
you're looking at and they would adjust to what you need. Is that unbelievable?
Uh I don't know if that's really going to work. It feels like it would be too
slow, but maybe maybe your brain gets used to it because your brain gets used to uh bifocals. I have I have a version
of bif focals and you just sort of get used to it. You stop seeing it after a while.
Well, you've all been waiting for the release of my conversation with Jordan
Peterson on his podcast and it's released. So, if you want to see me
talking to Jordan Peterson about some heavy heavy topics,
um, just search for his name and my name on YouTube and you'll see an hour and 20
minutes of us chatting. I think you'll like it. I haven't listened to it myself, but I
was there, so I feel like you'll like it.
Well, um, all the, uh, chatter on social media, at least on Axe, seems to be
about the new release of Grock, the AI, because it's the best one yet. And it's
not just the best one yet according to benchmarks, but there's some early
indication that it might have reached some kind of new level of intelligence
where it's actually figuring out stuff that doesn't already exist as knowledge.
So the difference between the weak AIS and what maybe Grock is Grock 4 maybe.
I'm not I'm not convinced. Um,
I'm not convinced. Sorry, I'm laughing at the comment. Um,
but I would like to point out that uh I believe I would be maybe the earliest
public figure to predict the AI would not create art that has commercial
value. Now, I'm sure that it's, you know, created some logos and some minor
stuff like that, but is there a popular comic strip made entirely by AI? No. Is
there a popular joke place, you know, like a joke um social media that's
really funny and made only by AI? No. Is
there a market for fine art made by AI?
No. Will there be? I doubt it. And the answer is that it we were never
influenced by the art. Now, that's that's the big uh reframe.
If you believed that AI was a gonna replace human art, then you thought it
was because of the art. The art never had value. It only had value because a
human made it and you were impressed that a human made it. As soon as you're
not impressed by who made it, which takes about one minute with AI, yeah,
I'm not impressed. Well, yeah. I mean, that's very cool, but I don't need to hang it in my house.
Um, so we've reached this point
where AI is very capable of making at least visual images. Would you agree
that there is no art studio um and there's no commercial art market
for AI generated art? And I'm going to take some credit for
predicting that because I don't think that was obvious. Um, but we'll see. Maybe I'll be wrong. Maybe
tomorrow there'll be a big market for AI art. Well, speaking of art and AI, um the
White House has released a social media meme of Trump uh looking
like Superman in the new Superman movie.
And uh the the text that accompanies it is the symbol of hope, truth, justice,
the American way, Superman Trump. Now imagine if you will, what will the
copyright holders from the Superman property say about that?
Are they going to say, "Oh, that's very nice. Thanks for promoting our movie."
Probably not. Will they say, "You must uh immediately take down that meme
because you're violating our copyright?" Probably. Probably. Will that still work out for
the White House? Yes. of course, because they're not going to be badly sued or
anything over one meme. But if it makes a little bit of a controversy,
even better. So, the uh the people making the movie should be winners because it'll get a
little attention and uh the White House will get a little attention and they
might have a little fake fight. Oh, take down that meme. It's our copyright.
Oh, it's just a joke. No, you must take it out. Then they both get attention.
So, good work on both sides, I'm sure.
Well, did you know that uh Trump is putting big tariffs on imported copper
because he's trying to what uh what is being called mine baby mine instead of
drill baby drill. I didn't realize that Trump is also going hard at uh bringing
mining of important minerals back to the US, but apparently he is. So, uh copper
would be one of those. It's a got a big old tariff on it now. And that should
make it a lot more economical to mine that stuff in the US. And I think some of the some of the red tape is being
removed as well. Speaking of red tape, uh, Secretary of
Defense Pete Hegth just made a very cringe-worthy little video in which he
was promoting the, uh, the, um, the military's
big increase in spending and development of drones. So,
um, you know how I always say, and you've heard me say it a million times, that that whatever country does the best
on drones is going to, you know, own the future because drones are going to be
everything in military. And we of course worry that maybe the US is a little
behind. We're a lot behind, let's say, China, behind China, maybe behind Russia. Um, so P Exathth does a little
uh cringeworthy video where he's uh walking in the lawn and some people in
the military are operating little drones that are buzzing around him. But they're very unimpressive little hobbyized
drones. And then, you know, one of the little clevernesses in the video is that
one of these little drones delivers to him a piece of paper, but it sort of
stalks him a little bit with a piece of paper. And it's it's not really well written or produced. But I did say to
myself, I'll bet there's not one politician who could have did who could have done what Paxth did. Now, I would
say overall the video was it missed the mark because it made our
drones look weak and stupid and not very lethal, which was the opposite of the message
they were trying to send. It just looked like we had just learned about drones yesterday
cuz literally they're they're just little hobbyist drones. It's not like they were showing the drones blowing up
a tank. We we showed our drones looking completely harmless and delivering a
piece of paper to Pete Hexath. So I'm going to say you missed the mark.
However, I will say that there's not a single other person in government who could have pulled off that segment. But
BXth has TV experience. So he made it look like a, you know, a segment from
the morning show or something. He actually pulled off the acting part. Um, even though it was too corny.
Anyway, uh, but I like the fact that the government realizes not only do they
need to make a bunch of drones, but we need to tell everybody we're really good at drones because that's, you know, part
of the war. Um, speaking of drones, ZMA Science
reports that, uh, there have been some flights of actual jets. you know, not a
not a drone per se, but an actual jet as human pilots. And they've done some
flights in Europe where the pilot is AI. Now, I guess they they have been keeping
a human in there just in case, but AI can now pilot a full jet.
I assume that includes takeoff and landing. Seems like it would, but I don't know. Um,
however, I would ask the following question. Is this just so we can make it
look like we didn't waste our money on the jets? Cuz, correct me if I'm wrong,
but one of the most expensive parts of making a jet is making it so that a
human can stay alive inside it. If you were a drone,
you would not need all the parachutes and, you know, all the visual stuff that
a pilot needs. So, wouldn't it never make sense to have AI piloting, you
know, one of these jets made for humans because it would be like a gazillion dollars worth of assets.
And uh I don't know. I I feel like human operated jets that have cockpits,
they might be on their way out and fairly soon.
Anyway, AI is going to be so much better than human pilots. Well, John Kerry, you all know John
Kerry from the Biden administration, and he's he's run for president unsuccessfully in the past.
According to O, John Kerry has admitted that Trump was right about the border
and Kerry has even gone further and said without a border protected, you don't have a nation. That's exactly what Trump
says. That that's full fullon
Republican messaging. And now he says it now. So John Kerry now can tell us, "Oh,
your entire country would be destroyed if you had another four years of Biden."
Now, he didn't say that, but he did say without border protection, you don't
have a nation. And we know we didn't have border protection until Trump took over.
So, I worry about the uh the bravery of
Democrats. You know, maybe they need another shot of testosterone
because John Kerry certainly knew that the
country was at risk of complete destruction under his
under his preferred administration, Biden. But now, now after some time has
gone by and Biden can't fight back and everybody admits he wasn't really in
charge. Now, now he can say out loud, "Oh, yeah. Uh, Trump was totally right
on the border." Now, how many other things are in that category?
A lot. Yeah. If if you were to take a list of
all the things that Democrats are criticizing Trump for and then just
check back in 5 years, how many of how many of those issues do you think
Democrats will say, "Well, yeah, you know, I have to admit he was right about all that crime stuff." Well, yeah. Yeah.
I have to admit in retrospect, he was right about, you know, building up the military to reduce our odds of getting
in a real war. I mean, it's going to be a long list, but uh it has begun.
The trumpification of history. Anyway, um
the uh according to Newsmax, Sam Baron is writing that the education department
is ending free tuition for illegal immigrants.
Now, how many of you knew that uh illegal immigrants were allowed
uh taxpayer funded technical and career school education according to the Daily
Caller? How many of you knew that you could be a non-citizen
and not even here legally as a citizen and that we would still pay for your
technical training? Now, if it were free, I'd be all for it,
I suppose, because it wouldn't cost me any money. But there I think there are a
few other news stories today about free benefits being removed from uh
undocumented or illegal residents. And I thought to myself,
how did all that stuff became become free and available? From health care to
advanced education to I think also uh what's that thing
where kids go to school early, Head Start. It's there's a lot of unraveling to do.
And at the risk of sounding like a big meanie, I would love everybody to get
everything for free, wouldn't you? Wouldn't it be great if everybody could
get everything for free? What a great world that would be. But it's not really
possible. And the only way that some people can be happy is by making sure that the unhappy
people don't take all their stuff. There's no other way to get there. Oh
well, I take it back. Um, I did see Elon Musk at some event talking about AI and
he believes that in the AI/root future that our economy might be a
thousand or a million times better than it is. like actually a million, not exaggeration,
but that it's possible that things will be a thousand to a million times better.
Well, at that point, probably free stuff for everybody. So,
we might be, I don't know, one decade away from not having any kind of
shortages whatsoever because everything we have a shortage of, AI just figures
out how to get around it. Oh, it looks like you'll run into copper, but we have
environmental problems, so we can't mine more of it fast enough. That's all right. Here's a new technology for
getting copper out of the ground without hurting the environment. Oh, that's a pretty good idea. We'll go do that.
Don't need to do it. We will send robots to do it. We will send our robots to
mine the the uh the rare minerals.
So maybe maybe it doesn't matter what our now if if Musk is right it also
means there might be this window of time where the deficit really really matters
and then it almost instantly will go to doesn't matter at all. Do you know what I mean? because right
now we have a a standard economy and AI isn't really replacing too many things. Not at least
not right away. Um so right now our our national debt is a existential threat.
But what would happen if AI made everything so profitable and easy that
everybody had 10 times more than they needed? Wouldn't the national debt almost become meaningless?
So, we might have this weird little window of time that might be 10 years or
20 years or 5 years, I don't know, in which we could all be dead because of
the debt. But that at some point if you could just make it to that 10th year or
maybe it's the 20th year, if you can make it there, then AI and the robots
will just make everybody have everything and you don't have to worry about anything.
So that'll be interesting. Well, allegedly, News Nation is
reporting that uh Trump says there's a good chance of a deal with Hamas for
Gaza for some ceasefire. I think Netanyahu says maybe in a few weeks.
Trump's got it up to a week, but do you believe that? Do you believe that there
will be some kind of deal? Well,
I hate to be a pessimist, but I believe they're only talking about releasing 10 hostages.
Really? We Yeah, we we can't get a deal in which
they give up all the hostages. And of course, Israel would like Hamas to um give up all their weapons right
away. And Hamas will not want to do that. and they won't want to give away
all the hostages because then they're more defenseless. So, I don't know. I I would have bet
against uh Trump getting a good result in Iran, but there's a good argument
that says he did. So, is it possible that Trump uh with Netanyahu will pull
this off and get something like a ceasefire that at least brings relief to
the citizens uh within a couple weeks
maybe, but I would bet against it actually or it will just, you know, delay how long it takes to unravel the
whole thing because as as long as there are hostages that are in tunnels underground in Gaza,
you're not really going to get any lasting anything. So, I don't know how
giving up, you know, 10 hostages for how many probably thousands of Palestinian
prisoners, I don't know how that gets you to a lasting deal, but I would like
to be surprised. We'll see. Well, you know that the Supreme Court
said that these district judges can't do sweeping national decisions. Only the
Supreme Court can do that. But it didn't take long for the uh the district court,
a New Hampshire judge has issued an injunction blocking Trump's executive order that would end birthright
citizenship. So, Supreme Court says
uh Trump can do it and the uh the local the more local judges can't stop it, at
least nationwide. But all they had to do was uh do a class action. So, instead of
doing it the old way that the Supreme Court said you can't do, the Supreme Court left open that you could do the
same thing. You could ban it nationwide, but it had to be in the context of a class action. And apparently, it didn't
take long for the New Hampshire judge to be presented with a class action.
So, is there a way around that? I don't know. Do not know.
Meanwhile, Trump has announced uh uh new heavy tariffs on Canada starting August
1st. 35% in tariffs and uh CNBC is
reporting this and I guess uh he's not happy about the Canada's um fentinel
um actions. So there's a little too much fentinel coming in. That's what uh Trump
would believe I guess. Um so Trump cited fentinel as a reason for the tariffs.
Now what is Canada going to say? Oh, we made lots of progress
and uh guess that's not enough. So, here's what I'm wondering.
I've told you about my mother's philosophy that she drilled into me when I was young, that you can get used to
anything if you do it long enough, including hanging. Um, it seems to me that Trump has now
made the entire world understand that he will use tariffs as sometimes a club and
sometimes a revenue source for the government anyway. And does it feel like
we just got used to it? Did he make the entire world just sort
of adjust to a reality where he can he can punish other countries by just
ramping up and down the uh the the tariff? Doesn't it give Trump some kind of weird
control over other count's policies? And and I think Canada, you know, they
might fight back. They might retaliate. Some of this I think was retaliation from the retaliation.
But have we reached a point where it's all normalized?
I feel like we have. There will still be push back. There will still be retaliation.
But it doesn't seem weird now, does it? It just seems, oh well, Trump will
probably increase their tariff until they give us what we want. It would be one thing if he only used
the tariff in situations where they tariff us so we tariff them back. But
Trump is using the tariffs as sort of a general weapon. So he's tariffing Brazil
because he doesn't like the lawfare they're doing against the the prior leader of Brazil. and he doesn't like
the digital um taxes on our digital platforms.
So apparently Trump has just normalized using tariffs as a weapon. So we'll see
if it works. Weirdly um or maybe this is a good thing.
Financial Times is reporting that the Pentagon is in a business deal with a a
mineral producer in the US. So, there's a mineral producer that's doing some
mining, I guess. What kind of what are they mining? Uh, but anyway, the Pentagon is
apparently putting $400 million into a direct investment with the US rare earth
uh mining company. So, they won't just be a customer,
they'll be a part owner. to which I say and and you know it it's not like
they're the only market. So the military won't be the only market for minerals. It would be the whole tech business. But
does that feel like a good idea to you? I I feel like Trump is the only one who
understands because he's talked about this with Tik Tok and other I think
we've heard it before. Yeah. With uh with Ukraine. So Trump believes that the US government
can just be an investor on something where the US government can make it profitable.
So the beauty of an investment like this is that not only does the Pentagon get a
you know a share of the profits that presumably would lower their you know
need for tax paid uh funding in the future. Um, but so not only do they get
a portion of it, but they can determine that it's profitable because they get to
decide where they buy their supply from if they if they buy it from their own
company. How is that not good for American
taxpayers? I feel like I always wonder why the government didn't do this, but
only in the situations where the government can guarantee that the government's own actions would make this
thing profitable. So, I don't know. It's definitely worth
a shot. It would be funny if we could get to the
point where the government was self-funding. Uh here here's my version of that.
Um, this is not a practical idea, but it'll give you the the sense of it. What if instead of collecting taxes, as
governments do, what if the federal government said, "We're not going to collect any taxes."
But it will be illegal to buy any form of insurance from any private company.
You you could only buy it from the US government. So it would be anything from car insurance to medical insurance, but
it would char it would charge enough to make a profit
and that profit would replace the uh taxes.
Now that's the bad version of the idea. So you don't have to tell me you could never do that for 10 different reasons.
But it always struck me that a government could
somehow make a profit instead of being a cost center. It should be a profit
center. I think only probably only Trump would even imagine the world in which
the government could be a profit center. Um, let's talk about mass deportations.
Jessica Tarlov on Fox News says that Trump supporters didn't vote for mass
deportations. Do you believe that? Do you believe that Trump voters didn't vote for mass
deportations, but rather voted for uh we'll do the worst first?
the worst first seems very different from what we're observing and uh there's a little extra news
that's being that's being created over that. Um there's a report I saw Steve Bannon
talking about it. I don't know if the I don't know if the report is real but he's treating it as real.
And the report is that Joe Rogan had dinner with Trump and that uh Joe Rogan
was trying to talk Trump out of the mass deportations and do the worst first instead.
Now, I don't know if that's an accurate report because reports about what somebody said at a dinner that people
weren't at is not exactly the most credible source of information.
But how many of you feel there's a division that matters?
Um, how many of you think that Trump has sort of uh baited and switched on you?
Cuz I do. Um, I would put this on my list of promises made, promises not
kept. Now, remember, you know, I'm a big big
Trump supporter and I do think that one of the most impressive things about the
Trump administration is how close his performance is to what
he promised. Probably maybe nobody ever better. He He
might be the number one best politician at making a promise and then keeping the
actual promise. But this one to me looks like a broken promise.
It's It's not It's definitely not worse first. And there might be completely
practical reasons why they couldn't do it that way. Because once you get the easy bad people, you know, the ones that
are easy to find, you could predict that the numbers don't work. If the only thing you tried to do
is get the ones who committed extra crimes after they crossed the border, which is itself a crime,
you would run out of them and then it would look like you were not succeeding in what you had promised, which is a
large amount of deportations. So maybe there was no way that that was
ever going to work. Just the numbers the numbers couldn't work.
So here we are. I don't know if this is going to uh
be a big split and I don't know if anybody's not going to vote for Trump next. Well, not Trump, but I don't know
if anybody's not going to vote for Republicans because of this
because on one hand, he definitely said he was going to deport everybody who was
here illegally. So that part feels like that's the promise kept cuz he said we're going to
get everybody. But he also said we're going to do it in the order of worst first. And that part
doesn't look like that's true at all. That that's my current take. But maybe
it couldn't have been. It it might be by its nature the kind of exactly the kind
of promise that nobody could keep because the numbers just don't work.
um you would run out of people to deport. Anyway, so here is my take which I have
not given you before. There will be some point in the deportations
where we all feel it on day one. you know, even if they
deported 10,000 people, almost none of it, none of us would feel it like
everything would look exactly the same because you probably don't know anybody who got deported. But as that number
creeps up and there's a lot of self-deportations, etc. Um, at what point do we start
noticing it? As in, I heard somebody say that the LA traffic was way down. Well,
it might be because it's the peak summer vacation months, but it might be because the uh
deportations are having that much of an effect or at least uh keeping people off
the roads. So, that's something you would feel if if that's what's causing it. How about
um what will happen if rents start going down and the news says well it's because
the there are fewer immigrants renting places. Well, you would feel that. What
about uh if the deficit uh gets a little bit reduced and what if
the news tells you it's because we're no longer paying for uh undocumented
people? Well, you would you would feel that maybe not as directly. Um, but what
happens also when small businesses start going out of business because they just can't get
enough employees or will it be the opposite? Will it be that uh more
citizens have jobs because jobs open up? Well, those are both you can feel. You
would feel it if you tried to get a service at your home and you just couldn't get anybody to show up. You
would feel it if you're uh unemployed family members suddenly become employed
and only because some jobs open up. So until we feel it,
we don't know which way this mass immigration is going to go. But I feel like we're within only months of
everybody having some experience that they believe is caused by this. And and
it'll be a contest between services that you can't get. You know, like you'll go
to the restaurant, your food won't be there, and you'll try to get your lawn
cut and there's nobody to do it. Well, in the long run,
do those jobs get filled and and you don't notice the difference or do you
just really notice, wait a minute, we don't really need to ship back any more
people cuz everybody who wants a job seems to have one.
Could go either way. So that's my prediction is that when the news starts
reporting that ordinary people can feel the difference. You not just hear about
it on the news, but you feel it because somebody won't return a phone call, your food doesn't come. Uh your prices go up
or your prices go down. So, I think we're only maybe the end of
the year that you're going to really start feeling it or at least it will be
reported that it's part of a cause. All right. Well, how many times have I told
you that you don't know anything about a story until Alan Dersowitz weighs in?
And once again, Alan Dersowitz is at the center of history.
As you know, uh, Durowitz was a lawyer for Epstein for a while. But also
Durowitz separate from that was accused himself by I think it was Virginia
Joffrey, the one who died recently tragically. And for a while she was accusing him of
being an abuser. Yeah. As part of the Epstein abuse thing. That my
understanding is she withdrew that and said it was never true. Now I don't know
what is true. I'll just know that the one and only accuser um changed her story long before death
and said no it didn't really happen. So Durowitz uh
is you know innocent by our standards and that's all we know.
So, but during um either one or both of those situations, either either because
he was a lawyer or because um he would he also had some rights to disclosure, I
guess, if he had been sued. Um,
Duruit says that he's he basically knows who's being protected by keeping the
Epstein files uh a little bit secret and he knows why.
So, Durowitz knows the actual answer. He knows the
people who are being protected and he knows why. And he says that directly. Do
you believe him? I do. I believe him. I believe he he may not
know everything about the story. There might be things even he doesn't know, but I'll bet he knows the big picture.
Now, given that he says directly, and he would know, he says it directly that
somebody is being protected and that he even knows who they are and why they're being protected. Here's what
I believe we can conclude with certainty. So there there's no such thing as 100%
confidence ever with this stuff. But I would say I have achieved a sense of
certainty about the following things. Number one, Trump, Bonji, Patel, and
Bonino are all lying. I am certain of that.
I'm certain they're lying and that they know that there's more that could be disclosed, but for reasons that
Duruititz knows and presumably the four of them I just mentioned also know
um that it's exactly what it looks like that there and then on top of that I'll
add the following. There would certainly be an element of trying to protect the innocent because
there would be lots of people whose names were associated with um with Epstein who didn't know what he was up
to and maybe just had some business or charitable contact with them.
It would be terrible to destroy their lives by associating him in a public way
with Epstein. So, so some of it is almost certainly
protecting the innocent, but given what Dura had said about it, I
feel as though we're also certain that there are some guilty people being protected. Do you do you feel like you
can say that for sure? I I feel like it because otherwise Trump would have said,
you know what, there's not enough information about guilty people, but there's a whole bunch of information
about people that are not even accused of anything. So, the reason I'm not going to give you
the files is so that the innocent people are not blamed. He would say that because that would be
an understandable, easy thing to say if it were true. So, I conclude that if
Trump doesn't say it's all about protecting the the innocent, there's nobody guilty in our files, he would
have said that and we would have sort of accepted it.
Might not like it, but we would accept it. I I would definitely accept uh I
cannot throw these people under the bus. they were good Americans and it would be a travesty of justice and there's nobody
guilty in these files. It's all innocent people. We're not going to do it. I can
go over that. But he didn't say that and nobody nobody offered that as the
excuse. So that tells me that you definitely have some innocent people in
there who are worthy of protection, but you almost certainly have some guilty
people in there. and and I feel like that is so strongly suggested
that I accept that as a certainty. Next, I accept it as a certainty that Epstein
was an intelligence asset. There might be some something we don't
know about whether he was only for the CIA or only for Mossad, but I feel like
the most likely is both. He may have been, you know, 8020 one
versus the other, but he the number of contacts that he has with both the CIA
and, you know, indirectly with MSAD, it's hard to imagine that he worked for
only one of them. It it seems far more likely he had a little business with both,
but I also I'm not sure that I care. That doesn't seem terribly important.
Um, then there's the question of whether it was a murder or a suicide. And I would argue that that's just a
distraction. It could be either one. But does it matter? Well,
I mean I mean, do you care if if allegedly he had been murdered? Do you
care that the murderer has not been found and prosecuted?
You don't care. You you have you have no care whatsoever
if he was murdered. So does it matter?
Yeah, we imagine it matters because we imagine it's like a normal situation
where of course you want to find a real killer. Of course you do. But do we
do we care at all? I don't think it matters at all. You know, it's sort of a
a curiosity. I I enjoy looking at the back and forth of it. Uh I would say the most likely
explanation, but I won't put this at 100%. Is that there was somebody in his
cell block who was the designated murderer because that was the one places
the camera was not. So if if allegedly I think his brother
Epstein's brother says he believes it's a murder because the first two coroners
said they couldn't call it a suicide because it looks like a murder. And then here's the funny part.
I saw Epstein's brother talking about how Cash Patel and Nick Bun and uh Dan
Bonino both said that they saw the files and it's definitely a suicide because
they've they know what suicide looks like. And Epstein's brother asked a
completely reasonable question. How many suicides have you seen?
You tell me. How many jail suicides? jail suicides
has Bino seen. Well, is it a lot? Like why was he even
looking at jail suicides? And how about Cash Patel?
Now, both of them are deeply experienced, you know, in the domain of,
you know, the justice system, etc. But really, how how many suicides have they
seen? And and if you were going to fake a
suicide, let's say you were some intelligence agency and you were setting something up
to look like a suicide, wouldn't you know everything that Epstein and Bongino know about what
makes something look like a suicide? Do you think they wouldn't have tried to make it look like a suicide? Do you
think that Bino and and Patel are the only ones who know what it would look
like if it were a suicide versus murder? Well, if it were a setup, the people who
set it up would probably know what it looks like if it's a suicide, and they would set it up to look that way. So, if
the only thing you did is look at the files, it's not like they walked around in the cell. They weren't there. All
they're doing is looking at the files that other people put together and they can tell if that's a real suicide.
That's ridiculous, isn't it? Am I wrong that that's just sort of ridiculous?
So, uh, I'm going to say it's more likely murder, but it doesn't matter.
Um, I'll also say that we could conclude that Trump is not implicated in the
files. Everybody agree? I think we can say with certainty that he is not implicated for
any kind of crime in the files. And the reason would be if Trump were implicated
for anything, are you telling me that that would not have leaked down already when Biden had full control of the
files? Of course it would. Even if nobody else's information got leaked,
there's a 100% chance that if Trump had any negatives in those files, you would
have heard about that. All right. So here here's me putting a lid on it. Uh
Trump, Bondi, Patel, and Bino are definitely lying about us about nothing
being those files. The reason they're lying is to protect both uh innocent
people and guilty people. I believe that's just now you could just
call that a fact. And they're winking so hard when they say there's nothing in
there that it almost looks honest. It looks like honest people who have been asked to lie on. That's what it looks
like. So, I don't even hold it against them because it would be their job to protect
the country first, right? It's their job
to protect you first and protect the system that protects you, I suppose. Um,
so yeah, if they lied to us and we know exactly why, but we just don't have the
names of the people, I could get over that. I think uh Mike Benz I saw
something on X saying Mike Benz thought that um the Republican voters would hold
it against Trump and therefore maybe hold it against the GOP. I don't think
so. Uh, I feel like the Epstein thing is too small and too irrelevant to our
lives that we would or anybody would change their vote on anything important.
I I think it's a curiosity, a distraction, a mystery,
you know, less of a mystery every day. Um, but no, I don't think it'll change any elections at all.
So Jamie Rascin, the one of the designated liars for the
Democrats, I always like it when he goes public on something. Um because he's
such a weasel. It it's like watching a TV show where where the casting director
got everything right. Like all right, who are we gonna cast as the the weasel?
And they're like, "All right, we got this actor named Jamie Rascin. Perfect.
He's got just the look. He looks like he's wearing a rat skin." Uh, you you
want me to give you an image that you'll never forget? When I hear his name, it makes me think
of two words: rat and skin. But then when I look at him, I imagine
that there's a giant rat who's wearing a human costume, but it's just like a, you
know, it barely barely conceals the fact it's a giant rat. And now when you look
at him, just imagine him being a giant rat wearing a disguise as a human.
It's all you'll be able to see. It's all you're going to see when you
see him from now on. You're welcome. Anyway, so Rascin is clever and uh so he
says that uh um that Trump's not living up to his
promise to release the Epstein stuff. Now, isn't that convenient?
It is true. It's true that uh it's a promise made and as far as I can tell, a
promise not kept. So, he's right about that.
But then he goes further and he says, "If there's nothing to implicate Donald Trump, then release the Epstein files."
And I thought to myself, damn, that is some good weasling. You know, I I have to admit that even
though I don't like weasels, when they do a really good job of weasling,
I'm a little bit impressed. Sort of like when a serial killer has built an underground bunker. I think, "Wow,
you're no ordinary serial killer. You put in the extra work to make that underground, you know, torture cell."
So, when I see Rascin come up with, "If there's nothing to implicate Trump, why
not release the Epstein files?" I say to myself, damn, that's some good weasel
stuff right there. Now, I think my argument is stronger. If
there were anything about Trump in there, you would already know it, of course. So, it's not honest and it's
not, you know, deeply rational, but it's really good, you know, weasel attack on
the other side. So, I'm going to give him I'm going to give him the win on that one.
Uh, meanwhile, I guess the uh FBI found that Antifa
suspect or they know who he is. He's wanted, so they haven't found him yet, I guess.
So, you know how the uh 10 uh Antifa terrorist guys uh one of them apparently
shot member of law enforcement and they're looking for that guy. His
name is Ben Hanil Song Somo NG
32 years old and uh I have only one question about
Ben song. Will they take song to sing songong? No.
Will they put a song in singing? I had to check. Sing is still a prison.
Yeah. So, uh, you'll be singing a new song pretty soon in Sing.
If you haven't seen it yet, you need to see a video that's going around social media in which the DNC chair Ken Martin
uh is asked about uh Zoran Mani's refusal to condemn the quote globalize
the uh inifada slogan. Now globalizing inifatada
would sound to a lot of people like just a purely anti-semitic you know cult of
violence against Jewish people and he was asked to uh to comment on that and
instead of saying people should not say that he said uh we're a big tent party.
We're a big 10 party. Um,
uh, Ken Martin, uh, I don't like to give advice to Democrats,
but but I'm going to make an exception in this case. If someone asked you, "What is the take
of your party uh, for having uh, terrorist sentiments?"
You should probably say, "Well, that's not something I agree with.
Instead, he goes sauceride. You know, I always talk to you about how you can
tell when the uh especially Democrats are lying because they open their eyes extra wide, you know, compared to the
resting state. So, if their eyes open really wide, you know that they're trying as hard as they can to convince
you that what they're saying is logical and and reasonable.
and he goes so wideeyed goes, "Oh, we're a big tent party." Uh, yeah. The only
way we win is by having a big tent, so I
hope you don't ask me any follow-up questions because big tent sounds good, right? Right. Big Oh, no. Don't Don't
bring up that globalizing again. No, let's talk about tents. Big tents.
So I can the Washington Free Beacon had this story. Anyway, uh that that's as hard as
you could possibly fail when asked the question. And
is there anything like that? Um on the Republican side,
I feel like there's not. if if you asked a Republican um an elected Republican or
even head of the RNC, if you said to them, "Hey, there was some white
supremacist who said this or that that you know was something horrible." Don't you think
that the ordinary Republican would have no trouble whatsoever saying, "Oh my god, I I I certainly disavow that."
Do you think that they would say, "Well, you know, they might be saying some super racist white supremacist thing,
but you have to remember we're a Big 10 party." Do you think you could find even one
Republican who would think that was a good way to go on that answer? I don't think so.
Only Only a Democrat would say, "Yeah, yeah, you might be a little terroristic.
It's a little bit murdery, but we're a Big 10 party. So, next question.
Harry Anton, the uh data expert at CNN,
is saying that uh the CNN did a poll, I think it was their own poll about uh how
worried people were about climate change. Are they greatly worried about climate change? Apparently, they've been
asking this question or somebody has for many years. And in 1989,
quite a quite a long time ago, 1989, 35%
of the country said that they were quote greatly worried about climate change.
Now, we've had years and years of just massive brainwashing to convince more
people that climate change is the thing they should worry about the most.
And here in 2025, it went from 35% up to 40.
So I would say that that's actually a significant move up even though a lot of
lot of years have transpired. But Harry Enson was uh blown away by the fact that
that that number hasn't gone up a lot because all the messaging is that it
should. What do you make of that? Why do you why is it that all of that uh
uh why is it that all of that fear-mongering that has been just nonstop a wall of fear-mongering for I
don't know 25 years at least? Um I mean the heavy part probably 25 years but
it's happening since 1989. Um, do you think that people just look at it
and go, "Ah, I don't believe that." Do you think they thought about it or is
it that so much time has gone by because it never really peaked? I mean, it was
never really much more than that. So, to me, it's sort of a mystery. I I
feel it has as much to do with how many people don't watch the news. So maybe 60% of the country isn't
worried about anything except the prices at the pump and the eggs because they're just not watching
the news. Is that all we're seeing or or there's something else? I don't
know. Anyway, everywhere every now and then I reflect on how many hoaxes I've been
asked to believe uh primarily by Democrats. So, there was a climate change hoax, which I call a
hoax because wait till you find out about climate models.
There was a fine people hoax, which completely dominated politics and was the reason that Biden ran for office,
completely made up. The Russia collusion hoax, which Brennan and Clapper
apparently were behind, if not Obama himself. And we lived under that
nonstop. It was like the biggest, most important news thing. Completely made up.
Completely made up. The Hunter laptop story, completely made up. Um, and then,
uh, I'm going to add this one. The fact that you needed a bipartisan bill to close the border.
Your fake news was reporting that nonstop. And I never saw once anybody on CNN say,
"Well, I mean, that's clearly you don't need a bipartisan bill." Well, even
though that was sort of obvious the whole time, and they still stuck to, you
know, oh, you need that bipartisan bill. But I would say that if you're looking
at the Democrats as the source of all hoaxes, uh they're not the source of all things
that are not quite true because Republicans have a little of that, too.
Uh for example, Trump said he would release the Epstein stuff and clearly
he's not. So you can judge that. Um and uh I don't
think that the border patrol is um well let's just say that border
security is not going worst first. There was a definite attempt to go worst first
but I feel like we got a little B that. So, but those were not
those were both smallish um because the the border thing, like I
said, Trump did say eventually everybody would be deported who was not here illegally. So, a little bit of
exaggeration with the worst first. Um and then the Epstein thing, he might
have sort of meant it, but then he got talked out of it. Not the biggest problem in the world, but look at the
size of the Democrat hoaxes. Climate change, trillions of dollars.
Fine people hoax completely divided the country. Russia collusion worse than
Watergate by about 10. Uh the Hunter laptop hoax could have changed the
election outcome. And then the whole border security thing. They were letting
people pour across the border and then pretending it wasn't happening. These are gigantic problems. So if you compare
it to, oh, Trump said he would release the Epstein files that is already old
news from a long dead guy. Not really that important.
Said he would do the worst first. Well, they tried. It's just that they ran out
of people to do worse first. So they kind of quickly pivoted and not entirely
un unexpected. Now think about the Democrat messaging.
So just a few short years ago, here were the main things the Democrats
were pushing. climate change, uh, woke identity politics, uh, all things trans,
all things DEI, pro-immigrant,
and Trump as Hitler, right? So, that that was like just a few years ago. So,
let me say it again so you could compare it to the new climate change, identity politics, trans stuff, DEI, uh,
pro-immigrant, and Trump as Hitler. Now, apparently, having realized that none of
that works, they have completely different priorities and opinions.
And now they're working on affordability but with a a socialist uh flavor. And
that Trump is an authoritarian. Do you know why they called Trump an
authoritarian instead of Hitler? It's because the the Hitler thing became
too comical that literally nobody was buying the Hitler thing because they used it too much. They they overused it.
So they had to come up with a new word to get all of their fake news people to
repeat that would sound like Kentler but wouldn't be Hitler because that would be
too laughable. So they came up with authoritarian. Uh meanwhile Bernie was trying to come
up with uh what was his word for the
for the rich people. Um, I don't even remember his word. It
was so bad. What What did AOC and Bernie, they were on the
Who were they railing against? oligarchy.
Oligarchy. I couldn't even remember their word. That was such a weak messaging. But here's the thing. Um, I
think affordability is important. And you know, maybe some Democrats think the authoritarian thing is important, but
doesn't it tell you that the entire Democrat party got everything wrong?
Because they abandoned sort of everything.
If you abandon everything you were saying just a few years ago and you try to stitch together some Frankenstein
monster of new stuff. Well, how about Trump's an authoritarian, but we kind of
like socialists, but not totally. Uh, but affordability is good. Oh, wait.
Affordability is improving. Uh, but we can't give Trump any credit for that.
They got nothing. They're they're really out of weapons here. Anyway, Trump says he's going to
make a major statement about Russia on Monday. What in the world could that be about? Do you think there's going to be
any productive movement about Russia and Ukraine?
I don't know. I did hear that the US is making Europe pay for the weapons that
the US is providing to Ukraine, which I don't mind so much. If if what
the US is getting out of this deal is weapon sales,
I don't mind that much as long as Europe's going to pay for it. If we were paying for it,
well, I'd have a little more problem. Um, so maybe that's all he's going to say. Who knows?
All right. I thought this was a joke, but I feel like this is real. I told you
yesterday that there was a a Democrat podcaster
um called Subway Takes. That was the name of the podcast. And uh that Kaml
Harris did an interview, but that the podcaster and the campaign collectively
agreed that the uh interview was so bad that they would not publish it.
So, you might say to yourself, "Oh my god, how bad could it have been?" Well,
the podcaster was a Muslim, still is a Muslim and has a Muslim name and I don't
believe was hiding the fact that he's a Muslim. And when Kla Harris was asked
about her favorite spice, apparently she said bacon
to a Muslim podcaster. Her favorite her favorite spice was
something that his religion his religion bans her from eating.
Now, that was the thing that the podcaster himself offered as the example
of how bad it was, but I don't think it was the only thing. But,
but can you imagine? Can you
I just love how bad it was. All right. Uh
did you know that uh I I saw Tucker was interviewing Steve Robinson of the Maine
Wire, a reporter who said that uh there are 270
uh owned properties in Maine in little state of Maine that are owned by Chinese
organized crime. So apparently Chinese organized crime has a gigantic foothold
in Maine. Now, don't you assume that's not the only state that they're active
in? How many how many Chinese organized crime entities are in America? And if
you were the government of China, would you be maybe working with your
criminal element to make sure that there was more crime in America
and uh you know get them out of China? I don't know. So, I am worried that uh one
of China's strategies is that they're just bigger than everybody else. They just have more people.
So, where we might say, you know, we're going to send a 100 spies over to China, or whatever the number is, China can
just say, "Oh, yeah, we're going to send 20,000 spies to America."
Cuz they could. We'll we'll just send 20 maybe 100,000. So they can just
overwhelm us with, you know, more soft assets.
Well, there's that. All right. Going to skip that story. Um, according to
Dexerto, whatever that is. Uh, Japanese residents are renting grandmothers and
they rent the grandmothers to provide the following services. Uh they rented grandmother for cooking, chores, and
emotional support and sometimes advice.
So I I saw that and I was like, I want to rent a Japanese grandmother. So I
rented a Japanese grandmother for some chores and cooking. Um, but she just
kept bitching about the commute, so I had to let her go.
Get it? Cuz she commuted all the way from Japan. See, that's a joke.
All right, forget it. I won't even try. Hold on.
All right. So, I'll remind you again that uh my
conversation with Jordan Peterson is now on YouTube. If you want to find it, just
uh just Google my name and Jordan Peterson and you'll find it. I think you'll like it. Let me let me know what
you think. And that's all I got for you today. Uh thanks for joining. I'm going to say a few words privately to my
beloved subscribers on Locals. I'll remind you again that if you feel
lonely, locals would be a good place to go because they spend as much time
talking to each other as they do talking to me and they like it. It's a part of
the day where they get to interact with some familiar people who care about them.
All right. Um and uh if you're not on
locals, I'll see you tomorrow, same time, same place. Thanks for coming, locals. I'll be private with you in 30
seconds.