Come on in. Grab a seat. We got lots of chairs
available up in front. Well, you look marvelous this morning.
Even better than normal. Dare I say it looks like you've lost weight, gotten a
tan, and become sexier. Yeah, that's you. Well, stocks are down
a little bit. Um Tesla was down over 7% but now it's
down 5%. So maybe people will get over that.
That would be the optimistic take if people just get over it.
All right, let's get our comments going and then you know what happens then?
That's right. You get the show you deserve,
which is a great show. [Music]
[Music] Good morning everyone and welcome to the
highlight of human civilization. It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and it's
the best time you'll ever have in your life. But if you'd like to take a chance on making it even better than that,
well, all you need for that is a cover mug or a glass of tanker jealous or
Stein, a canteen jug or flask, a vessel of any kind. Fill it with your favorite
liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled pleasure, the
dopamine hit of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. But it happens now.
Oh, that was a good one. Well done. Your synchronicity is excellent today.
Mike Benz went for six hours on a live stream. Well, I could top that.
know today we'll go 7 hours. No, we won't.
All right. I wonder if there's any new science that they could have saved some money
just by asking me instead of doing the study. H oh, here we go. According to
neuroscience news, and you won't believe it, but people
prefer human empathy even when AI says the same thing.
How How many of you thought that the research was going to find that people
liked AI empathy the same as human empathy? Is there anyone who thought
those would be similar? Next time you don't need to do the
science, just ask me. I'll give you I'll give you all the answers you need.
Well, according to unusual whales on Axe, um Amazon now has 1 million robots
working in their their various uh warehouses. 1 million robots.
So, but at least they're mostly not the intelligent kind that'll come and kill
us all. But 1 million robots in Amazon. Wow.
Speaking of technology, a company called Cloudfare
H sounds familiar, but I think it's a different company. Cloudfare
uh will now block AI bots from your website. So if you're the New York
Times, for example, and if you were to hire a cloudfare to protect your
website, then if an AI bot tried to read it for trading purposes, it would block
it. And it would also offer a a revenue
model where the AI could still read your site and still trade on it, but it would
have to pay. it would pay a micro payment for trading on your website.
So, we went from AI is stealing all of your
um your intellectual property, which you could argue that it was um we went all
the way to you can't read my intellectual property. I'm going to hide it, but if you want a taste, you have to
pay for it. And I thought to myself, I wonder if I could use that. How much
does CloudFare cost? Because don't you think that AI looks at the Dilbert
website? Yeah, right now it doesn't have much on it, but it will pretty soon. So
maybe I could maybe I could monetize that. I doubt it.
Um, and also what happens to AI as a business model if it could no longer
train for free? Wouldn't you say that the main reason that AI is even such a
big deal is that their their primary input is other people's work that they
take for free? What if they couldn't get it for free? Well, we might find out because if this
cloudfare product catches on um then the AI will have to pay for its
content. I don't know if it would be as economical then. Well, Senator Chris Murphy says
Democrats would win a lot more elections if they borrowed some of the techniques
from our favorite socialist Zoran Mani who's running for mayor of New York. Um,
but he's not talking about the the socialist communist parts. He's talking
about the affordability and the shifting power from, you know, the powerful to
the less powerful. And I think he's right about that. But why is it that
when the the Democrats finally find somebody who knows how to message, knows
how to come up with policies that his own people would vote for. Um, he's a
great communicator and policy guy. Why did he have to be the communist?
Like they they couldn't get one one person in in the entire Democrat party
of tens of millions of people. They couldn't find one person who could also
say, "We need to work on affordability and shifting power, but I'm not going to
try to seize your means of production." Nobody.
There was nobody in the entire party who who could just say the right thing
without also being anti-Semitic and communist. Nobody. Tens of million. The
closest you could get was a communist anti-semite.
Now that's what people are saying. Now, when uh you probably heard me say
the other day that when Trump called uh Amandi Mandi when Trump called him a
communist, I pushed back on that a little bit and I said, "Well,
he's he's not a communist, he's a socialist." And you know, that could be
bad enough if you go too far with your socialism. So, I wasn't defending him. I
was just saying that that word communist is a little bit hyperbolic.
Boy, was I wrong. So, I looked up the definitions of
communist versus socialist. And first of all, they're not that different. The the communist problem is
that, you know, generally some dictator is in charge,
but they also have control of the means of production. Now either the socialist
or the communist model could still end up with a dictator but
um it but there's a video in of 2021 where mom Dani is answering some
questions on a video and he actually says as an aside that the end goal is
seizing the means of production. That's pure communist.
So, I would like to apologize to President Trump and everybody else who
was calling him a communist while I was scoffing at it. Like, he's not a communist. I mean, come on, people. What
are the odds that a communist would be leading in the polls to be mayor of New
York? I mean, that's crazy. That's crazy. And so I rejected it as being something
that, you know, couldn't really happen in the real world. Well, I was wrong.
100% wrong. He is a flatel communist. He's a pure communist. The part about
the dictator is optional. You know, dictator is something that arises out of
it, but it's not how it starts. And uh if you say that you want to seize
the means of production, that's not adding a little bit of socialism on top of your capitalism.
That's that's pure communist. So Trump is right on that. I I join you in
calling him a communist. He might be a little bit anti-semitic,
too. We'll talk about that a little bit. But uh the big beautiful bill is still
being ground up like sausage in the Senate. I guess they have the voterama
last night. Maybe it's still going. The voterama is when usually I think the
minority party recommends all kinds of things to add to a bill and then the
majority party votes all of it down. So, it's a complete waste of time that
for some reason they feel like they need to do. I don't know what that reason is. I guess just the process requires it,
but they're in that weird process now. But one of the things that apparently they rejected
was uh kicking illegals off of Medicaid.
Let me say that again. This is a Republican bill
that President Trump wants. And one of the things that got rejected
by the Republican majority was kicking illegals off of Medicaid.
It didn't pass. It didn't even pass with the Republicans. So, it was 5644 was a
vote. Susan Collins voted no on that one according to the Gateway Pundit.
So, we got that going on. Um, wasn't that like one of the main things the
Republicans wanted? So, at this point, we started with this
bill over in the House of Representatives that gets sent to the Senate and they
can change it all up and make a bunch of changes and then the parliamentarian gets a hold of it, makes a bunch of
changes and then they do the voter makes a bunch of changes which have, you
know, they've already negotiated a bunch of changes within the Senate itself. So now this bill that I feel like started
out as a semi good idea, we don't even know what it is anymore.
We just don't even know. So the one thing we can know for sure is the people
involved don't understand what they're voting for entirely. that that part I think we we know for sure because like I
said it's 25 different topics within that bill and they're all kind of convoluted and backwards and you know
doesn't make sense on the surface but there's some backstory that makes it make sense. How many how many people in
the Senate do you think studied all of that? Not many.
Well, according to Unusual Wales, a site on Axe, um, and I think this was based
on asking Grock. Well, no, I I'll just say that Grock agrees. This comes from
Bloomberg. So, unusual Wales is just reporting what Bloomberg said. And they
say the Senate's version of the big beautiful bill will cost the bottom 20%
of taxpayers an average of 560 a year.
So that would say that it would make poor people more poor and while giving
an average boost of $6,000 to those at the top end. So according to Bloomberg,
it does indeed take money from the poor and give it to the rich.
What do you think? Is that a fair interpretation?
And then I asked Grock if that was accurate. And Grock said largely yes.
That it would be accurate, that it would cost the bottom 20% of taxpayers, but it
would benefit the people at the top end. Now, do you believe that that is knowable?
Do you believe that AI can do the math or Bloomberg can do the math?
No. I guarantee that this does not capture what would
happen with this bill over 10 years because nobody can calculate that. This is very much like uh climate models.
Do you think a climate model can accurately tell you what the temperature will be on average in 20 years? No. We
can't do that. Do you think a budget estimate that has, you know, hundreds of
moving parts, do you think it could predict what's going to happen in even
one year, much less 10 years, which is the term they're looking at? No. No.
That's not a thing. It's not a thing that anybody knows what's going to
happen. probably when they look at these numbers, they're ignoring any stimulus
benefit, which is what Trump would say. If you don't count the stimulus benefit,
then maybe this is what happens. But if you counted the stimulus benefit, and I
don't know that there will be a stimulus, but that's, you know, that would be the that would be the claim.
Wouldn't it make uh the bottom 20% more likely to be in a good economy? If
you take somebody and you take the bottom 20% of taxpayers and you say,
"I'm going to take $560 in taxes away from you or, you know, by taxing you."
Um, but we're going to raise the GDP to 7%.
Which would be enormous. Do you think the bottom 20% would come out ahead?
They might. They might, but that wouldn't be captured in any of the
estimates. How about uh uh let's see what else?
So, what about the effect of um
closing the border and deporting all the illegal workers? Would that make a
difference to the average income of a low-income person? Yes. Yes. You know, supply and demand
suggests that the income, you know, just the wages of the average low-income
person would go up because they would no longer be competing with, you know, 10
or 20 million illegal people who want those same jobs.
So, is that calculated by the CBO or Bloomberg? No, of course not.
No, these it is completely unknowable how this would shake out if Trump is
right and there's this great stimulus and at the same time he's sending back
people who compete for those jobs. And as we've seen, the average wage for bluecollar people went up since Trump's
been in office. if he if he can find a way to decrease inflation
again the money would be worth more. So none of this is is something you can
calculate. I would say that like climate models
um when you're looking at these budget estimates it's really just political. So
if you want Trump to fail, you calculate it one way. And if you want him to succeed, you calculate it the other way.
But you might know by now that Elon Musk is not really happy with this uh this
bill. Um one of the things he doesn't like or maybe the main thing is Musk
asked on X, what's the point of a debt ceiling if we keep raising it? To which
I say, uh, right? Did you ever wonder that? So, the
Congress imposes on itself a debt ceiling, meaning that they agree that
they will never raise debt beyond this this level. And then what do they do
every single year? They change the debt level. They they change the ceiling so
that they can add more to the debt. So Musk is correctly asking the question,
why do you even have a debt ceiling? If if you can change it at will, and you
do, and you do it every single time, it's a pure waste of time, right?
Uh Musk also says there's a quote a massive strategic error is being made u
uh in the uh bill because I guess it removes it removes uh some government
support for solar and battery technology
uh that will leave America extremely vulnerable in the future. So we of
course need every bit of electricity we can get because AI will be you know
increasing the need for electricity by I don't know a thousand or something something ridiculous. So for us to
compete with China and other countries we're going to need a lot of electricity.
Um Musk says that if we if we're not going full out in the uh solar and solar
batteries for the uh for the network, we'd be losing out on, you know,
obviously a big source. Um we'll get uh let me get to that in a
minute. I've got more to say about that. So So I looked at uh Grock.
I had to use Grock for all of my prep this morning because every time I saw a
new story, I would say to myself, uh, I think I need some context on this. And
Grock is amazing at that. Just amazing at context. So, almost everything I'm
going to talk about, I groed at first to find out if I know what's really going on.
Um, so Musk has called the uh this bill the
big beautiful bill that's 940 pages. Uh, he called it utterly insane and
destructive. He said it would destroy millions of jobs and harm future industries while favoring favoring
industries of the past. Um, and he said it would be political
suicide for Republicans. Now, a lot of that I think is because it it cuts green green energy projects,
which I assume I assume most things uh would be essential because we're not
going to do everything we need to do with gas and oil and even nuclear. You
know, we're going to have we're going to have to do something a lot more than we're currently planning to do. So, he's
right about that. I think so. Musk is urging people on X to oppose
the bill and especially the $4 trillion deficit increase um that he says is pork
fililled and uh Trump is responding by calling
him a wonderful guy in a Fox News interview recently. Um but m but uh but
Trump is suggesting that the reason Musk is opposed is because it uh removes the
EV mandate which would have an impact on all the electric car companies including
Tesla and he said that uh you know Musk campaigned with him and should support
the bill and uh but Trump didn't want to get into you know direct confrontation
but later did when somebody asked as asked Trump about um dnaturalizing
people who are citizens if they've acted poorly because the uh I guess ICE well
the government uh has a new priority that they're going to deport you even if
you are a citizen if you've also done something that's super destructive you
know like committed a crime you know, that's really bad or something. So, somebody asked Trump
about is it possible they could deport Elon Musk back to South Africa? And
instead of slapping that down as ridiculous, Trump said he he might look
into it. Now, I don't know that I'm 100% right, but it
seems to me that that is completely a bluff. Um because if Trump actually
literally tried to deport Elon Musk, the country would be ripped apart there.
There's no way he's going to try that. But I've been wrong before recently.
Is it possible that Trump actually would try to deport him? Uh because Musk has
promised that whoever votes for this bill, which would be Republicans, that he's
going to try to primary out of their office and he's going to try as hard as he can to get every one of them out of
office. And he probably does have,
you know, the money and the power that he could certainly put a big dent in the Republican majority. And Musk also says
that the day it passes, he's going to start a third party, uh, the America
Party or something. So, he would create an alternative to the Republicans.
And I got to say I if it were my job to cut the budget
and I did all that work and took all that personal pain and all that personal
and business risk and I risked everything including my life and my
career and my reputation to lower the debt and then the Republicans just added
to the debt like it like it never happened. I might want to take them down, too.
So, boy, do I understand where Musk is coming from.
Boy, do I understand. Now, the only thing that gives uh let's say the
possibility that they're sort of both right, you know, Musk and Trump. If it's true that
Trump can boost the the economy, not just with um the big beautiful bill,
which would do which would be a little bit stimulative, but suppose uh he also
gets interest rates down by percent or two, which is possible. I mean, it might
take till May, but it's possible. Um, suppose the tariffs continue to bring in
tens of billions of dollars, which they are now. That's possible.
So there is there is a version of this where the bill does add to the debt at
the surface level, but that Trump would do so many other things
for the economy that the economy would start zooming and that zooming economy
would make up for any shortfall um and be uh be able to pay down some of
the debt. Now, is that possible?
That does it sound even a little bit credible that Trump would do we'd be
pushing a whole bunch of different buttons from tariffs to border control
to, you know, stimulus to lowering lowering taxes on some things. If you
put all of that together, plus the lower interest rates, if you put it all together, is it possible that Trump can
stimulate our economy so much that it starts paying down the debt?
It's a stretch, but has Trump done anything that was surprisingly effective
that even the smart people thought wouldn't work? Yeah.
Not only has he done it, he seems to do it somewhat regularly. You know, the uh the tariffs are working
better than the experts said. The Israel Iran ceasefire and the bombing of the
you know nuclear facilities definitely went better than all the smart people said it would so far.
So the uh the option of betting against Trump,
it doesn't look as good as it used to look, right? There was a time when you could just say, "Ah, that crazy clown,
you know, he's got crazy ideas and you could bet against it." But it's getting
really hard to bet against Trump because he just keeps making things work that
you wouldn't think would work. So, who's right? Well, if I were Musk, I
would definitely be uh up in arms because they put me through this the
ringer and they didn't cut the uh budget and more of a more of an obvious start
on day one, cut it as opposed to hoping
that other things will make the the deficit go down. So, they both have a
pretty good argument here. I don't know which one's right actually.
I It's hard to bet against either one of them. Um and then uh apparently uh
Tesla and SpaceX have large government subsidies and Trump has implied that
maybe they should look at those subsidies and cut them. So again, it's probably hyperbole and it's probably
just a threat. Um, but I did see that uh in the Amuse
account on X, it's a good account to follow, Amuse,
that uh Tesla is not the only car company in the US getting subsidies from the feds. Um, so Tesla is getting I'll
just round off 12 billion in subsidies, but GM uh got about 50 billion. Ford is
also 15 billion, Chrysler 12 billion, and that Congress created these
subsidies because they thought it would be good for the country. So Tesla would just be
one of the car companies that's accepting the subsidy because the government, you know, wanted our our car
business to do well, apparently. and SpaceX
um got a combined 23 billion in federal contracts and support. But did you know
that Boeing and Lockheed uh also received a whole bunch of
billions in support while SpaceX launched 90% of the payloads to space uh
with the JV team sending only 3% into orbit. So Musk has actually said, "Go
ahead and cut all of the subsidies as long as you do it for everybody. Just
cut all the subsidies." Now, is he bluffing?
Maybe yes and maybe no, because he probably could still be in the strongest
financial situation relative to the other car companies if they all lost their subsidies.
So, he'd probably still be competitive. We don't know if GM would Would SpaceX survive? Probably. He
probably has enough business from, you know, private satellite people who want to put satellites up and stuff that uh
SpaceX would survive as well. So, they're both maybe bluffing. You know,
maybe Trump is only bluffing that he would take the subsidies away from Tesla and SpaceX, but Musk might be also
bluffing that uh that he wants those taken away because he'll he'll find a way to make
it work and then nobody's got a subsidies. So, that got interesting.
Anyway, um, so Musk, as I said, did a little poll on
X to ask if people thought there was time to create a new political party in
America. 80% of the people answered said yes.
Um, and Trump is over on truth saying, "Don't be a panickin."
The jokey name for Republicans who panic, a panic. uh a new party based on weak and stupid
people. So that's what he's calling the new party the panicans.
Trump says be strong, courageous, and patient and greatness will be the result. So Trump very consistently and
very expertly and very effectively is making the case that we need to go
through the problem not around it. Um, so I'm talking about the debt
going around it would be, oh, we are spending too much. We better cut our
spending. So that would be sort of the defensive, you know, weak way to
approach it. Oh, uh, don't want to spend too much. Whereas he's doing the what he
would call the strong, courageous, and patient method of greatness, which
is you just blast through the middle of it and don't run up the budget or don't
run up the deficit, but rather you have such good growth and such a strong economy
that the deficit looks small in comparison. Could he do it?
Well, no one else could. If if it were any other president, I
would bet against it and say you can't go through it. You you're going to have to retreat. You're going to have to back
up and cut your expenses. But he says just go right through it. Is
he right? I don't know. And that's I hate to say
this kind of fun that I don't know. Uh because usually this stuff is a little
more obvious, but I really don't know. Could he do it? Nobody else could.
But could Trump, man, it's like a coin flip. He might be
able to do that. And it would be glorious. It would be one of the most amazing things America has ever
experienced. If he could do it, maybe. But if he's uh doesn't get his
bill passed and Elon Musk primaries everybody, uh if it does get passed, you could
imagine that things could come off the rails pretty quickly. Um Doug Bergam, the Secretary of
Interior, was uh on Fox talking about solar power and he was making the case
that solar is unreliable um because it doesn't work at night.
Now, I complained about that online and said, "If you're still saying the solar
doesn't work because the sun goes down, you don't sound like the smart person in
the room anymore." There was a time when that was the smart thing to say. You
say, "Well, how can you make electricity when the sun is down?"
But in today's world, the the model is that you collect the sun and put it in
batteries and then when the sun goes down, you release the batteries.
So, I was calling Doug Bergam um dumb for acting like there's no such thing as
batteries and and acting as if we don't already have these these very exact things.
Solar solar powered batteries that are in networks. China has them, other
countries have them, we have them. However, I was corrected
by uh people who know more than I do about this who said that you would never get the batteries to last all nights.
So, the batteries might be good for peak periods where you're just filling in
where you don't have enough other energy. So, you might get two to four hours, but if you really wanted it to
last overnight, you need about 16 hours of battery power. And we're nowhere near
that. So the best technology if you stretched it, you might get to six hours,
but then you would still need, you know, three entire networks of batteries to get there and it would be uh not not
price competitive. So what does Elon Musk say since he's in
that business and he's smarter than all of us about, you know, the direction of these technologies? Well, he would say,
and others would say, Grock says this too, that uh we're probably, you know, 8
to 10 years away from having batteries that can last all night and be economic.
So, was the big beautiful bill talking about using our current technology or
was it if we're boosting uh boosting companies that are trying to invent our way into the time when the
batteries will last all night and it would be our best source of electricity.
Well, maybe we don't need to know the answer to that because Doug Bergam is
still wrong even though I'm wrong about the economics. Uh, he's still wrong if he thinks that
solar doesn't have a place in the network because its place is to handle
the peak. That that's what it's for. So if it can do that, then you don't need
those other sources of power because your solar would handle the peak. So
um I would say that uh Doug Bergam is off point. What he should have said is
that it would take 10 years or so before this would be economical. So maybe we
should wait. Or maybe private industry should fund it. Or maybe we don't need to give subsidies to people like Tesla
because they have enough money to do it on their own. Maybe that one has sound as smart to me. But if he just says the
sun doesn't shine at night. He just sounds like a dumb guy who is sort of
not up to date. I'm sure he is up to date by the way. Wait, what is seeing another comment?
Uh, breaking. What did bus say? Bannon is
going back to prison this time for a long time. Bannon wants to nationalize
SpaceX. Uh, I guess Mus said Bannon is going back to prison this time for a long
time. I don't know if he knows something we don't know, but uh, things are heating up. It's getting spicy out
there, people. getting spicy. Anyway, so
um I asked Grock again
uh where we are in terms of batteries and apparently Musk predicted that we would have terowatts
from that source solar uh annually by 2030. So that's only five years away. So
shouldn't we be, you know, subsidizing and working like crazy
um at the moment so that 5 years from now there will be enough battery power in the network to make solar work?
Well, we'll see. All right. Um Steven Miller was uh trying to defend
the big beautiful bill, but he wisely stayed away from the economics.
So rather than defending, you know, what it would do to the deficit, which is a
tougher cell, he quite wisely because he's good at this, um said that each
part of the bill would be a huge accomplishment for a president. Then he talked about things like building the
missile shield and border security and things we like, you know, we like to be
safer. So, that's a pretty good argument, but it doesn't get to where
Trump is at or Massiey's at or uh even where I'm at, the people who think that
the deficit is the big problem. And according to Bill O'Reilly,
the uh fate of the big beautiful bill is uh it's all on the line for President
Trump's legacy. Do you think that's true? that if this doesn't pass that
Trump's legacy will be damaged. Well, I would argue he's already done so
many good things that his legacy is going to be amazing. Um, and it doesn't
seem like the bill would be completely destroyed. You know, maybe has to be
paired down to just the things we really, really, really care about and agree on. So maybe something smaller
will end up out of this. Maybe. But uh as you might imagine, Tesla
shares have dropped because of the Trump Musk feud. Do you know how do you know how angry
Elon Musk must be? And maybe angry is the wrong word, you know, maybe just determined.
uh that he would once again put put his entire assets in play at
risk over this over this issue. He knows he's putting everything at risk. And as a a
Tesla stockholder, which I am, I'm a little bit uncomfortable
with him putting, you know, my my finances at risk as well.
But I do appreciate that he's willing to go all in. And I do appreciate that he's
not lying. He He's treating the deficit like an
existential threat and he is allin. And if it's not an existential threat,
well then don't be allin. And if you say that it is, which it is, you kind of
have to be allin. So I do like his consistency. You know,
if he had if Musk had been so much about cutting the deficit and then suddenly
when the big beautiful bill comes up, if he had been all right, well, these are all really good ideas
cuz, you know, every one of these would be something the president would be happy to get and there's 25 of them in
the bill. I would not be happy with that. that would that would look like he
flipped on his most important existential threat which is the debt.
But he didn't flip. He's staying completely consistent.
Meanwhile, the according to Reuters, the US dollars doing uh poorly had its worst
first half since the 70s. Yikes. And uh the reason for that is just all the
roing of things that are going on. So uncertainty etc. Um but the dollar is
taking a taking a dump compared to some compared to the currencies of other
countries. So that's not good.
Apparently uh JD Vance is in the capital in case he has to break break a tie on
the vote. Um, and they're trying to flip Lisa Marcowski, I guess, to get her to
vote for it. We'll see where that goes. Um, the US has also, according to El
Jazera, approved another half a billion dollars for arm sales to Israel. So, we
would be up to uh in in 2023,
that might be the last number we have, uh mil US military aid to Israel hit uh
$18 billion. $18 billion just in 2023.
Now, obviously, because there was some military action, it sort of makes sense that the number would be bumped up a
little bit at the moment. because some of that is, you know, to
the benefit of the United States, too. Um, but uh do you know what the uh the
annual aid cap is for Israel? So, the aid cap that was passed in 2016
by the Congress um capped the amount we would give to Israel at 3.8 billion.
and 2023 it was $18 billion. So let me tell you what Congress is
really bad at putting caps on spending. Apparently they just ignore all their
caps on spending. So when it comes to the budget or it comes to Israel
um but a lot of that military spending goes back to the US. I don't know a percentage, but it goes back to US
companies sell the weapons that Israel needs. Not all of it, but some of it.
In other news, uh Russia has put up some kind of a suspicious satellite asset
that appears to be stalking a US satellite. So, it's an unknown object
that I think came out of a satellite, one of their satellites. And some say it's a some kind of a weapon to destroy
a satellite. And some think it's something else like research or, you know, maybe trying to
gather information from our satellites. I don't know. But it's uh sketchy.
So, Russia has a satellite threatening asset next to our our satellites.
Here's a story that if there hadn't been so much other things going on would be
the biggest story of the day. So, RFK Jr. uh was on Tucker's podcast. And
here's what RFK Jr. says. Now, imagine this being like the seventh biggest
story of the day. Just just listen to this and it would
only be the seventh biggest story. I I'm just making up the seventh part.
But RFK Jr. says that the CDC covered up. So remember, the cover up is
sometimes worse than the offense. They covered up an internal study. So, it was
the CDC's own internal study which found a uh
1,135% increase in autism risk from people who
took the hepatitis B vaccine. Now, that would be young people, of course.
Um, now you might say, how did they cover that up? Well, the way they
covered it up was once they got this result that they didn't like, they removed from their data set the older
children. Do you know why they did that? Because younger children
don't yet show symptoms of autism. So, they eliminated from their data set
the ones that you would expect to show symptoms and they limited to people that you
wouldn't notice if they had it. Now,
wouldn't that be the biggest story in the country if everything else was even a little bit
normal? You like fewer wars and Musk and Trump stuff. How is that not the biggest
story? And then RFK Jr., who at one point
reportedly was considering banning pharmaceutical ads on television has now
reversed that and says he's only only wants them to be more honest.
How in the world are you going to accomplish that? How are you going to make them more honest?
that's not really a standard that you know is a it's not really a um a
variable that you can manage to because one person's opinion of what is honest
enough is not really going to be what other people's opinion is. So I think one of the examples was you know showing
people living all happily just in case they don't all live happily.
Is that is that a case of being dishonest or is it just what commercials
do? So I would worry that big pharma has
flipped RFK Jr. or maybe the big uh network TV people said uh we can't do
the news if we don't have big pharma ads cuz they pay our bills. Something
happened. somebody got to him and changed him from
uh we're going to get rid of these ads all the way to well we'll just make sure
that they're honest as if that's going to make any difference. So that's
disappointing. In weird news,
um Trump has Trump has introduced a fragrance which
he's selling uh called Trump 45 to 47. And the
funniest part is it is for men or women who want to uh smell like success.
He uh Trump says in the advertisement, uh, get yourself a bottle and don't
forget to get one for your loved ones, too. So, if you're Trump supporters, you
can spray each other with this fragrance and then sit around on the couch and
smell like winners.
So, I'm a little I'm having a little bit of uh agreement with the with the Democrats
who are saying the Trump family is using the office to uh increase their wealth.
Now, I don't know how much wealth they're going to increase with their fragrance, but
but it does seem like he's using the office to increase his wealth.
I tend not to. It doesn't bother me as long as it's transparent.
So, you know, truth social, totally transparent. You can see what he's doing. Um, whatever he's doing with
crypto, again, kind of sketchy enterprise, but
it's all transparent, right? So, I don't I don't have the same opinion about people who are not hiding
anything. Uh, so if Trump can uh can monetize the presidency by selling a
fragrance, as long as everybody knows exactly what he's doing, I don't have a
problem with it. But the I think the Democrats do have a little bit of a point a little bit of a point that there
does seem to be a little monetizing going on here. Then uh another story that is so massive
that again it would be the only story if we didn't have so much going on. Um I
guess our our law enforcement people found that there was a massive Medicaid
fraud that had already stolen $15 billion from
the Medicaid program. 15 billion dollars. I'm not misspeaking.
It wasn't million and it wasn't $15.
It was $15 billion. And apparently the way the scam worked
is some over overseas entities, I don't know which ones, u bought a bunch of
medical device outlets so that they owned real companies that until the
fraud started were doing real things. they were selling, you know, medical devices. And then they got 94 doctors
and a few hundred nurses to be in on the scheme. Presumably, they were, you know, benefiting financially. So the doctors
would um prescribe things like catheterss
and then the bad guys would just uh use their fake stores to say that they'd
sold catheterss to a list of people that they knew were on Medicaid,
but they were not actually doing any business with them. So people would notice,
they'd look at their Medicaid uh records, I guess, and they'd say, "Hey, I didn't I didn't buy any catheterss or
anything or whatever other medical devices." But if they tried to complain,
the bureaucracy would just sty them. So, if you were just one person who believed
there was one thing on your bill, they shouldn't have been there. First of all,
it wasn't you paying for it. It was Medicaid. So, how much did you care?
Second of all, if you tried to do anything about it, there wasn't really a process for that. So, you would just be
stymied by the bureaucracy. So, they had this perfect little Medicaid fraud going
where the only people who would notice it didn't really have an incentive or even a channel to complain too much. But
it got to 15 billion dollars and it looks like uh looks like the FBI is
taking them down and Department of Justice. Anyway, um
let's see. Trump's getting in more more trouble because he wants to go after the
the naturalized citizens and deport them, but only if they've done terrible things, you know, broken laws and stuff.
So, that's out there. Um, there's some big hacker network that apparently is uh
blackmailing, doing ransomware, blackmailing some airlines at the moment. and uh they think it's something
called scattered spider. It's a ransomware crew
uh and they're they're doing ransomware on big companies by essentially locking up their networks and telling them they
won't unlock them unless they give them, you know, tens of millions of dollars.
And apparently they're doing really well. They're linked to Russian aligned actors
and they're recruiting fluent uh engineers with zero accent. So Forbes is Forbes is
reporting on that. Um Candace Owens, who continues to be
fascinating, um is claiming that somebody at the
White House called her to ask her to stop talking about um Bridget Mcronone,
that would be the French first lady allegedly. Um because Candace had done a series in
which she uh followed her hypothesis that Bridget Mcronone was born a man and
uh has always been a man just dressed as a woman. I guess
now I do not personally uh feel that I'm convinced that's true.
It's really interesting and if you if you listen to the evidence that she has for it, it is compelling,
but as I've warned you many times of the documentary effect, you know what I'm
talking about, right? If you watch a documentary that has one point of view,
by the time you're done with that documentary, you will believe that it's all true because there's no
counterpoint. A documentary just shows one point of view. And if you watch something for an extended time and it's
just one one fact after another that's all on the one side of an issue, you
will be convinced. But that doesn't make it true. It's it's
an effect that I call the documentary effect. If you watch a long form of any
one point of view, you'll probably be convinced. So you really have to see the other
point of view to, you know, really know what's going on. So the first thing you need to know is that although Candace
Owen's evidence for her hypothesis that Bridget Mcronone is really a man is
really convincing, I've watched I've watched quite a bit of it and I have to say when I'm watching
it, I think to myself, wow, that's pretty convincing. That's a pretty good argument you got there.
However, I'm also aware that I'm being affected by the documentary effect. So, if you
told me, Scott, you have to bet your entire net worth on whether whether it's
true, I wouldn't I wouldn't. I'd probably bet against it,
even though it's possible. I mean, anything's possible. And let me let me also go further and say I really don't
care. Does it matter? Does it matter to the United States?
Whichever way it is, if she's a man or or a woman, does that matter? To me, it
only matters to Mcronone. And obviously, he's happy with whatever his situation is. So, why would I even care? So, first
of all, I don't care. And I don't judge him no matter what it is. You know, it's
just it's just not my business. Um, however, Candace has now said that
the top White House uh person called her and told her to cool it on that story
because uh we need France to help uh negotiate something with Russia and
Ukraine and France might be stalling a little bit to try to see if they could
put some pressure on Candace. Now, some people said Candace made up
the whole thing, not just the Bridget Mcronone thing, but some are saying that she made up the fact that somebody at
the White House called her and told her to cool it on the story. What do you think?
Well, I'll give you my opinion of Candace, which is, as far as I know,
I don't know that she's ever been accused of telling a like a bald-faced
lie, has she? I've never seen that. So
she always strikes me as somebody who might be right sometimes might be wrong
like every other person who talks in public like me might be right might be
wrong but lying now how many of you believe that she
would just make up like a like a lie that's that specific
that doesn't sound real does it I don't know I' I'd have to see if some
of you have some other example where you know that she you know you know that she
knew she was lying and did it anyway then maybe I'd change my mind but I'm not aware of anything like that my my
sense of her is very similar to my sense of all the independent journalist types
you know if I see Glenn Greenwald say something it might be right it might be
wrong but is he lying No, no. Uh, how about Michael Shelonburgger? He might
say something that maybe, you know, cuz every, like I say, not everybody's going to be right every single time. Might say
something that doesn't check out, but would he be lying about it? How about Matt Tybee?
If he got something wrong, would you guess that he was lying about it? No.
because there's no evidence that that any of them are about lying. It just
just doesn't seem like a thing. So, I'm going to say that I don't know
anything about Bridget Mcronone's um biological reality. It doesn't matter to
me one way or the other, but no, I don't think that she would make that story up.
To me, it sounds perfectly natural that the White House would say,
you know, you're making it a little bit tough on us. Could you, you know, pull back a little bit on that? That makes
sense to me. So, I'm going to say that that's real.
Well, so, uh, let's talk about the communist Mandani again running for
mayor of New York City. Um, apparently,
um, he's lost MSNBC.
Imagine being the the most prominent Democrat at the moment. And, uh, David
uh, Donnie Deutsch was on MSNBC saying basically this guy's too close to
anti-semitism. Um, and it's a problem. Now, that's
MSNBC. He's one of the main voices that you hear on MSNBC. And uh
how could you possibly win an office if you can't win MSNBC
if you're a Democrat? Republican obviously never wins MSNBC. But is that even possible? Now, here's
why. Here's what got him in trouble. So apparently there are people who say
globalize in uh into into Fada.
So if you say globalize into F, am I saying that right? into FOD. Yeah. Um as
Donnie Deutsch points out, if you're Jewish, and even if you're not, you interpret that as a cult of violence
against uh Jewish people everywhere. Now, you don't have to agree with that
interpretation. You just have to know that that would be a common interpretation that other
people do believe in that interpretation. So, if you're just looking at his odds of winning the
election, he was asked on Meet the Press if he would uh disavow the people who say
globalize into Fada. Now, apparently he has not said that. So he's not being
accused of being one of the people who said it. He's being accused of being unwilling to disavow it and say that
he's he doesn't agree with it. So when pressed on the topic instead of doing
the easy thing which is oh I don't say that and the reason I don't say it is
that I you know don't believe it and I disavow it. That would have been sort of the
non-anti-semitic version of how to deny it. But instead,
he went all weasel and said, "Well, I don't say that, but I don't like to disavow things because if I start
disavowing the language used by other people, uh, I would become like Trump."
Really? Really? That was that was his concern that he
wouldn't disavow what looks like to many people a call to violence against Jewish people around
the world. He wouldn't disavow that because doing so would make him sound
like Trump. Now that doesn't even sound a little bit
like that's a real reason, does it? And first of all, Trump did disavow the
neo-Nazis in uh in Charlottesville. So, it's not like Trump has never disavowed
anything. He's disavowed quite a few things. I don't think it hurt him.
So, we got that. And then, uh um I think Deutsch was talking about how uh he
talked about taxing white people. And he's not running away from that. He's
just saying, "Oh, that was just sort of a way to refer to rich areas."
I'm not buying that. Sorry. Uh I think it was exactly what he meant to say.
But MSNBC also had a guest uh Pablo Tore
who said that uh Madani's refusal to condemn the phrase globalize the fod
uh is actually smart and it might be a chess play um because he doesn't want to get caught
I don't know condemning or apologizing things like like Trump would but uh I
would argue that he's using a Trump strategy Y right now, which is Trump
does not spend time uh explaining or apologizing or walking back statements.
Um he he doesn't do that and that does make him look stronger,
but how in the world can you lose Oh, and then and then uh
uh what was his name? Uh Hakeim Jeff was asked about the fact that Mam Dani
is not disavowing the phrase uh globalizing into so what does Hakee Jeff
say? He says uh that they'll need to work with him on that to like improve that
messaging. But basically even Hakee Jeff was saying that if you don't fix that
you're going to have trouble getting elected. So, Mom Daddy seems to have lost MSNBC
and lost Democrat leadership because he's unwilling to condemn
what many would see as a call to violence against Jewish people around the world.
And he still is unwilling to do it. Wow. So, not only is he a communist,
but he's I would say the the uh accusation that he's an anti-semite,
I would say that that's demonstrated. Wouldn't you? Would you at this point say that that's
in question? I don't think it's really in question, is it? I I think he's a a fairly pure
anti-semite and uh anti-white.
It seems like it. So, can he really get elected? I don't
know. You know, it would be the most amazing thing if he did, but but it
would prove to you that all it took for a Democrat to get elected was to have a
policy that people liked. and his policy that says, "I I'll make
New York City more affordable." Well, your your low knowledge voter is
going to say, "I like that. I like a I like a city that's more affordable."
But I think New York City has the doesn't have the highest uh number is a
number or percentage of Jewish residents. How in the world does that city elect an
anti-semite mayor? Is that even possible?
The the fact that this looks not just possible but probable is absolutely mind-blowing.
But that's the power of having an actual policy. So, you know, if the other Democrats
catch on, Chris Murphy was correct. If the other Democrats catch on and they
start saying we can make things more affordable, they don't even have to be telling the truth because people are
just going to say, "Yeah, more affordable. Sign me up." So, there's that.
Uh, according to Reuters, Taiwan is going to be doing some war games in
which they'll simulate a Chinese invasion. So, how would you like to be Taiwan at
the moment when you're wondering if you know you're next in our Game of Thrones?
Um, I don't know how much of a fight they could put up, but my suspicion is that
China will not directly attack. Um, maybe in our lifetime, well, your
lifetime. Mine might be shorter than yours. Um I don't think they will because China is
not really an aggressive um offensive military.
They've they've done very well by not starting fights. And uh if they started
a fight with Taiwan, they don't know how that would go. You know, there there's no way that for them to know for sure
that that's, you know, going to be a oneweek operation. That could be that
could be devastating for China. So, I'm going to I'm going to predict that you
will not see China attack Taiwan. I'll say during the Trump
administration. That's as far as I'll look out. But during the Trump administration, I say no Chinese attack
on Taiwan because they would they wouldn't want to do it under his regime for sure.
Well, uh, Trump sent a note, uh, personal note to Fed Chairman Jerome
Powell showing a list of other countries that have much lower interest rates and
arguing that uh, that means we should lower our interest rates. Now, as you
know, they've been Trump's been on him forever and wants him to re retire and
drop out and wants to fire him if he could, but that would be hard. Um, but
does it make sense for Trump to compare us to other countries?
No, it doesn't. It's a persuasive argument because
people who see the argument would say, "Hey, you why does Switzerland have a 1%
interest rate and we've got, you know, five whatever."
So if you're trying to be persuasive, it's a really good argument.
But what do I tell you about analogies? So he's he's analogizing the United
States to this list of other countries. Do you think maybe there's a reason that
they have lower interest rates than we do? Yes, there's a reason because we're
different. the the countries that already have low to no inflation
can lower their interest rates because higher interest rates are what you do if you're trying to tamp down on inflation.
So, in the United States, uh, even though our inflation is at a
reasonable number at the moment, which would be, you know, Trump's argument, hey, inflation's under control at the
moment. It's not as low as it is in Switzerland or those other places that have low
interest rates. It's not as low as them. Um but we also have the extra risk
hanging over us of you know what will happen with the trade deals and you know maybe some other stuff. What will happen
with the big beautiful bill? So we have some uncertainty in the United States
which Powell would argue is good enough reason to wait a little bit see how things shake out before you lower
interest rates. Um but do not be fooled by looking at a list of other countries.
There's a reason that these other countries act differently and the difference is they have different
economies. They have they have different uh different export and import ratios
which apparently makes a big difference to you know this conversation. So no,
they're just different. But is it persuasive? Yes, it's absolutely
persuasive because I'm probably the only person today who will tell you it doesn't make
sense to compare countries. Watch the news today, see how many of
the talking heads bother to research it and find out that it doesn't make sense
to compare to other countries. We'll see.
Um, Senator Tommy Tuberville says that uh, Powell could drop interest rates
just one point and we'd save taxpayers $400 billion.
Uh, because he says inflation is as low as it's ever been. So, it's just about politics.
It feels like it. You know, I have to say that the current interest rates, it
feels like politics more than it feels like good economic decisions, but um
$400 billion. That would take a nice bite out of our deficit, wouldn't it? So now imagine
you're Trump and you've got Elon Musk, you know,
chewing at your heels for for bringing up the deficit. Imagine if you will that
Trump could get interest rates lowered by 1% by just jaw boning the Fed
forever. I don't think it'll work, but uh by May there'll be a new Fed chairman. So So by May it'll work when
he's got his own guy in there or Ley. So what if Trump gets us 400 billion per
year in interest rates and another 200 billion per year in extra tariffs that
we weren't expecting even though American companies pay for a lot of that
were and then then let's say that the big beautiful bill did work as a
stimulus. So let's let's say he gets another couple hundred billion dollars from the
stimulus and then let's say that the upcoming budget packages in which
Speaker Johnson says those are the ones that you would get the Doge cuts in.
What if they cut a hundred billion? So you could sort of crawl your way up
to a trillion dollars in um in work
against the the deficit. Now I think we're spending like two
trillion a year more than we bring in. So it still be only half of the deficit,
but it probably that it would calm things down.
So um so it seems to me that Trump has a play
that only he could make work cuz you know he's the only one who would do tariffs. He's the only one who would you
know browbeat the Fed. He's the only one who could get big
beautiful bill passed if he does get it passed. So these are very much only Trump things and they might be worth a
trillion dollars a year collectively. So if he gets that done, it's certainly
going to look like he did something positive for the uh for the overall
debt, but it would still only be halfway there. So I don't know. I don't know if
it'd be enough. CNN is uh was doing some news reporting
about a new app that the anti-immigration deportation people um have called ICE
block. And I guess uh I'm doing the same thing CNN was doing, which is telling
you about something that was bad for ICE people. So I won't give you any more details. I'll just say that Tom Hman
when asked about it says the DOJ needs to look into CNN because it would be
like they're assisting people trying to avoid law enforcement or assisting
people to hurt law enforcement because they would know where they're going to be. So, I won't say more about that, but
that's a dicey situation. Um, apparently Pam Bondi says that uh
the government is the DOJ is going to be suing the sanctuary cities. So LA, New
York, Illinois, New Jersey, Colorado, Minnesota. Um, so she's suing all of
them for their sanctuary city policies.
I don't know if that'll work, but maybe. And
let's see, uh, Ran Paul is continuing his, uh, his quest to put, uh, Fouchy in
jail. Um, and he says now in a new new video he was on, Rand Paul says, uh,
that there are new documents that reveal Anthony Fouchy did know gain of function
research could be the cause of the co pandemic and that they're going to force
him to testify under oath. Now, as far as I know, Fouchy is covered by pardon,
right? So, a preemptive universal pardon. So, I don't know if you could ever put him in jail for that
or anything else, but uh it would be nice to know.
Um, how many of you think Fouchy is is as dirty as Ran Paul claims and that he
knew he was funding it, he knew there was a risk and then when it happened, you know, the worst case scenario, it
got out that he uh covered it up and lied about it.
How many of you think that's a description of reality? Well, I don't know, but I'm definitely interested in
hearing what Rand Paul and Congress has to say about it cuz uh I don't feel like
Rand Paul is somebody who would just make up.
He must have a really strong case or he wouldn't be going this hard, you know? I
so Rand Paul is another one that I trust that even if I disagreed with him, it wouldn't be because he was lying,
you know. So, I don't think he's lying, but we'll see if he's also correct.
Um, apparently Trump has signed some executive orders about Syria to drop
some of the sanctions um without asking for anything in return. So, he's just going to drop the
sanctions on Syria. Now, that's um presumably because the new dictator in Syria is uh
been cooperative and may in fact be part of, you know, an increased
um an increased deal in the Middle East for the uh Abraham Accords. So it looks like
Trump is uh probably smartly assuming that if we play nice with them,
they're going to play nice with us. So that would be a function of, you know, knowing if their leader is that kind of
personality. So going first and just giving something
to Syria, that doesn't seem very Trump-like. You know, normally he'd he'd be asking
something in return. So probably there's something that the leader of Syria has
promised you know privately if you do this um will be cooperative in the
Middle East. Um I think one of the questions would be
the Golan Heights. So maybe maybe they want to make sure that Syria gives up
the Golan Heights forever um to uh to Israel. We'll see. Um Iran
is asking the UN Breitbart is reporting this Francis Martell that uh Iran is
asking the UN to make the US pay reparations for the bomb nuclear sites in Iran.
I don't feel that that will be successful. However, is Iran smart for trying? Yeah.
Yeah. From a persuasion perspective, um, obviously it won't work. But if they can
get some headlines saying, "Hey, you should pay reparations." It's making you
think past the sale. The sale is, "Should we have bombed them?"
If you're talking about reparations, they're making you think past the bombing to how much should the US pay
for its terrible, terrible mistake of bombing them. So, persuasion wise, A+. Chances of
success, zero. Um, I guess Texas is now banning land
purchases by China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea, according to the National Pulse. So Greg Abbott signed it into
law. If you're if you're a uh if you're a citizen of any one of those countries,
you will not be able to buy land. I wonder if I wonder why the states have
to do that. I feel like that's just embarrassing to the federal government
because it feels like the federal government should have done that, not just a state. So we'll see if that makes
a difference. Meanwhile, in science, um, Nor Eastern University is writing
about this. There's a there's a discovery in quantum materials that
could make electronics a thousand times faster. So, researchers at Northeastern
University have figured out how to change the electronic state of matter on
demand. So, it's a quantum matter transition
technique that apparently if you built it into the computers, they'd be a thousand times
faster. That's pretty exciting. All right, ladies and gentlemen, I ran a little bit
long, but that's all I have for today. I'm going to say a few words privately to my beloved subscribers on Locals and
the rest of you. Thanks for joining. I will see you again tomorrow. Same time, same place. and locals coming at you
privately.