Come on in everybody. Grab a seat. You are in the best place that anybody could
ever be. Yeah, good for you. Just checking your stocks.
Well, it's mixed. Bitcoin's up. Tesla's up. SPY is flat.
Yeah, not bad. Let's get your comments working and then
I got a show for you. Oh yeah, we'll get to that.
We got a show.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization. It's
called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to take a chance of elevating this experience up to levels that no one
can understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you need for that is a
copper mug or a glass of tankered shelter, a canteen jug or flask vessel
of any time, any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join
me now for the unparalleled pleasure, the dope being of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's
called, that's right, the simultaneous sip. And it happens now. Go.
Ah, so good. But how good is it? Hm. Let's
see. Well, according to Eric Dolan, who's writing in Scypost,
uh, caffeine may help prevent uh, stress induced depression.
That's right. Drinking coffee can reduce your stress induced depression. Do you
know what else it can do? It can reduce all of your other depression too. How
many times have I felt it was the afternoon and I said to myself, uh, life
is, you know, crappy and there's nothing good in the world and I don't have any
energy and I start to feel a little depressed and then I have a cup of
coffee and suddenly all my depression is gone.
So, you should have just asked me, Scott, would uh caffeine make me feel
less depressed? Yes.
All right. Um, but Scott, is it true that if you feel sick that having soup
could help? Well, it turns out that there's a uh study, a meta study that
says that there's a good chance that having soup, which they call eating
soup, is that what you call it? When you have soup, do you eat it or do you drink
it? I don't know. I just say I have it. I
would not say I eat soup and I would not say I drink it. I would say I had some
soup for lunch. But according to an article by Sandra
Lucas in the conversation, um you don't have to have chicken soup, but soup in general seems to be mildly
indicated for helping you recover from things faster. One study found that
people who ate soup recovered up to two and a half days faster from, you know,
normal respiratory problems than people who didn't. It was just one one study.
So, get your soup. Well, you didn't know that the
Department of Homeland Security when they're not keeping your country safe
are also very funny. Very funny. Uh case in point, the New York Times had a guest
opinion piece by uh somebody who called himself one of Biden's border advisors
and the name of the article was here's how to fix your immigration system.
Um let me say that again. The New York Times has a guest opinion by one of
Biden's border advisors and one of Biden's border advisors
believes he can tell us how to fix our immigration system.
So what did the Department of Homeland Security say about that? Well, they
reposted it on Axe uh the the cover the cover to the article and the Department
of Homeland Security just added this sarcasm. Quote, I was Humpty Dumpty.
Here's how to sit on a wall.
I don't know how often the Department of Homeland Security tries to be funny, but
that was pretty good. Pretty good. I think it's the Trump effect.
Does it seem to you that the Department of Homeland Security would go on social
media and say something that's just purely a joke before Trump was president? I I feel like Trump makes it
safe for everybody else to joke around a little bit more in the government.
So, I like that. All right. According to Pirate Wires, GB
Rango is writing that uh uh this is weird. So, this is a real business that
already exists. It's a startup that is so exactly what I've been
imagining for the cities of the future that it looks like it came right in my
head. It's called uh Pipet Stream Labs. And what they're doing is they're trying
to put underground robot delivery systems. So it would be a
a big pipe underground and a robot would deliver things that are up to like 40
lbs. But it would be so efficient because there would be uh you know no
traffic on the roads. It would just be robots zipping around underneath the uh
underneath the ground. Then you could uh order stuff that you wouldn't normally
even bother like uh you could order a candy bar and maybe pay 25 or 50 cents
to have it delivered. So anything you wanted would just sort
of appear. Now at the moment since they don't have pipes underneath everybody's
house um the delivery goes to some central
kind of a building. So you you can go get it. But the plan is that you would
deliver directly to apartment buildings and eventually to your house if you had
the foresight to build these little pipes for delivering everything. So imagine if you will that everything you
get from Door Dash, everything you get from FedEx, all all that uh local
delivery, it just all goes away and it just becomes a a little door you open to
your underground delivery, I guess. Anyway, I've always thought
that having delivery trucks and delivery cars on the surface of the world was the
wrong way to go. Underground delivery pipes, it's coming. So, this is a real
thing. It's already being built. Um Elon Musk has confirmed that uh his AI X AI
which would be Gro 4 um he says it's the smartest AI in the world and also it's
going to be built into Optimus humanoid robots.
Um but my question is this.
How in the world is a large language model going to be safe to put in a robot? If the biggest problem with AI is
hallucination, how does a robot learn not to do that?
And does the hallucination apply to physical acts? Now, I understand how AI can work in
your your um fully self-driving car. If you have a bazillion hours of video of
cars, you know, from the perspective of the car, then all you need is visual AI
and apparently cars can drive themselves. But do you think you could have a
humanoid robot that had seen enough video of the real world that it could
navigate your house? It would just walk in your house and you'd say, "Robot,
make me a sandwich." and the robot would know what your refrigerator looks like
and you know where you keep the condiments and stuff. It would just figure it out. I don't know. I feel like
that problem of hallucinating is unsolved and maybe unsolvable
with any large language model. So, I'm going to be a skeptic
in saying that uh Optimus will be successful with just the large language
model AI. They would have to have some other kind of AI or some other kind of programming on top of it. There's no way
that you can just put some large language model AI in there and and your
robot will come to life. I don't I don't think so, but I'd love to be wrong.
Anyway, I do think we'll get there. You know, I I think humanoid robots will be
big and uh Musk believes that the value of
that robot business will be 10 trillion dollars bigger than the iPhone.
All right, here's a persuasion lesson courtesy of President Trump, who was uh
speculating in front of reporters yesterday. Um, who had the lower IQ? Was
it AOC or Jasmine Crockett? So, the the press is listening to Trump.
He's like, um, yeah, I don't know who's dumber. We we
have to give an IQ test to AOC cuz she's really dumb, but maybe Jasmine Crockett
is dumber. So, we should have them compete to find out which one is the dumbest. Do you recognize the persuasion
technique? Do you all see it? Compared to
AOC is dumb or compared to separately that Jasmine
Crockett is dumb. What he is doing is making you think past the sale. The sale is are they
dumb. He's making you think about which one is dumber.
If he can make you think about which one would do better on an IQ test, he's
already convinced you to sort of uncritically accept, well, they're both dumb. What the only mystery left is
which one is dumber? I've taught you that so many times. It's
a special trump trick that makes you think past the sail. the sale of Yeah,
they're both dumb. All right. See, you learn things.
Well, according to Representative Anna Paulina Luna,
um she posted yesterday that Jerome Powell is going to be fired and firing
is imminent. Now, that would be that of the Fed. Now I have not seen any
confirmation of that but separately um and Paulina Luna says that uh she has
a very good source and she's been told that Powell will be fired real soon. I
asked Grock if anybody else is talking about that and they're not. So that's
the first thing you need to know. probably probably
not likely because uh Grock explains that although it's true that the
president can fire the head of the Fed, they can only do it with cause.
And cause would be something like doing such a terrible job that it's obvious
it's not just a difference in judgment, but there's, you know, something wrong with you.
Now, does Jerro Powell indicate that there's something just deeply wrong with
him or that he has a different opinion with the other the other governors on
the Fed? Uh there's just different opinion. So, I would say at this point it looks
like a different opinion, but it might be the wrong one. Um, you know, Bill Py
is going hard at him and uh it could be that Trump wants to test the limit of
firing the Fed chief because that would be that would be a little bit beyond the
boundaries of what I would expect him to be able to get away with. But he might
try it. It's possible. I'm going to bet against this. I'm gonna say I don't
think he'll fire the Fed chief, but we'll see. Well, there are a number of uh good
things happening in the administration, and I think uh Trump's administration does a good job of touting their
successes. Now, if you're looking at them touting their successes, remember that's
marketing and you could even call it propaganda. So there might be some, you
know, counterargument to a few of these things, but here are some of the things we're learning just today. Um,
apparently the Department of Justice and the DEA have seized an enormous amount
of illegal drugs um in the country and coming into the country. So here are some of the
numbers, and these don't even sound like they could be real. The numbers are so big. News Newsmax is reporting on this
today. Um, allegedly since Trump got in into the job, they've
captured 44 million fentinyl pills.
44 million fentinyl pills. 4500 pounds
of fentinyl powder. I'm no expert, but it feels like that would make a lot of pills. Um, nearly
65,000 lb of meth. Really? 65,000
lbs of meth? Isn't meth just like a little powder?
How much meth is that? 65,000bs of doses that would be just like a
little line of powder. Holy cow. and more than uh 200,000 pounds of cocaine.
200,000 lb. What? How much cocaine is that? If you
saw it in one big pile, would would it be like taller than you?
And uh they've made more than 2100 fentinel related arrests. Now, I don't
know. And here here's the caution here. I don't know how this compares to the
baseline. Could it be that the DEA and the DOJ
routinely catch this most drugs? Um, we just don't hear about it. Is that
possible? Because you always hear about uh the Biden administration
was doing a bad job of messaging how successful they were and they did do a
bad job of that. Is it possible that what we're seeing is just that the Trump administration is really really good at
taking credit and that's all you're seeing? I don't think so. I think this is
probably a a real a real accomplishment. But you have to be careful. You got the
documentary effect. You're only seeing one side of it. So I don't know if there is another side of it, but this is a
awfully big success or it looks like it. All right. So that's one thing. So one thing is big
success at the border, big successes capturing illegal drugs. On top of that,
um, Trump announced yesterday they got a a great trade deal with Indonesia.
New York Post is writing about this and I guess it opens up their market to
all of our products and they're going to pay 19% tariff and we are going to pay
nothing, says Trump. It's a good deal for both. Now, remember I told you that
if things went well with this tariff trade deal stuff that the thing that the
Democrats don't see coming is that since they wouldn't do all the deals in the
same day that Trump will have this nearly endless number of successes
that every day or every few days he's going to be able to say, "Well, we we
got another amazing trade deal with another major country. Well, this is one of those. So, how many major trade deals
is he going to get with how many countries? And and then, of course, there's the surprising, you know, amount
of uh tariff revenue coming into the government. Trump is winning pretty hard on trade.
The the stock market has decided he's not going to destroy the country. So, the stock market is like, "Oh, we're
fine." and he just is rolling up the winds. Now, sometimes I imagine he'll
get ahead of the reality. So, he might claim that they have a deal and then you
find out and it's not really finalized and stuff like that. But in terms of taking credit,
they're really good at it. And and that's actually a positive statement.
Um, I like it when my government is telling me that things are great and
getting better. That's what I want to feel. I want to feel that optimism that
the government is doing a great job. And then it makes me think, well, I can do
things, too. You know, I can contribute. Everything's heading the right way. Um,
I sure like being an American. You know, it makes you feel good. So Trump is
really good at that. On top of that, um I think this was all happening this
morning. Uh Trump has announced a whole bunch of gigantic investments in the United
States. So he announced uh I think it was today 56 billion in new energy
infrastructure. 56 billion. That's a lot of dollars. uh
more than 36 billion in new data center projects. That's a lot.
I don't think we have anything that compares to those numbers in the past.
And he says that uh 20 leading tech and energy companies are announcing more
than 92 billion of investment in Pennsylvania.
Just Pennsylvania. 92 billion dollars.
just Pennsylvania. Now, why Pennsylvania? Is that because it's close enough to
everything? Um, but they have maybe better situation for regulatory problems, maybe. So, I'm
guessing that Pennsylvania has their act together enough that they can they can
attract all that investment. So, good job, Pennsylvania, whatever you're doing.
Now, Trump has also claimed uh I think this was also today maybe
that that he's already secured 16 trillion dollars in investments in the
US economy. Do you believe that he's already secured $16 trillion
in new investment? Well, I feel like this is the situation where
you have to say that might be a little bit of salesmanship there. That that might be a little bit of hyperbole, a
little bit of optimism. Does that bother me? Nope. Nope. I want my country to
tell me that they're bringing in trillions of dollars of new investments so that other people want to invest too
because people like to go where things are working, right? If you tell the world, hey, everybody's investing in the
United States. I mean, really, the investments in the United States or the AI, the energy. Oh, yeah. This is really
good. You should get in on this. Can't lose. So, yes, I like it when they say
they're capturing a bunch of drugs. I like it when they say the investments are big. And I like it when uh we get
new trade deals. Now, are there exaggerations involved in all these
accomplishments? Perhaps doesn't bother me a bit because
I want a salesman and chief who is telling us everything's working out
great because that's exactly what makes things work out great. You need the optimism to drive the economy. Nobody
does it better. Trump's the best optimist we've ever had as president.
Although Reagan was pretty good. Um there's an article by David Hareni in
the Washington Examiner titled why climate climate change alarmism failed
and he notes that um there's a poll that CNN's Harry Enson is talking about that
shows that uh um only 40% of Americans are greatly
worried about climate change which is the same as in 2000.
So in 25 years of of trying to scare people, 25 years of trying to scare the
public, the number of people who are who say they're scared exactly the same as
it was before they tried to scare the public. Now, do you ever just read a story and
you sort of uncritically accept the elements of the story?
All right, I'm going to give you one right now. All right, this will blow your mind if
if it has the same effect on you than it does on me. It's going to blow your mind.
All right, I live in California, as you know, so it's a very blue state
presumably. Um, most of my friends in my adult life
have been probably more Democrats than Republicans. Um, you know, obviously I lost uh most
of my friends when I started backing Trump, so I'm talking about a little bit in the
past, but I realize today that not once in my life
have I met anybody who was worried about climate change, like ever in my whole life. Not one
person. Now, are you really telling me that 40% of Americans are quote greatly
worried about climate change? That sounds to me like something that
people say to pollsters, but is completely disconnected with
reality. How many times in your life have you been at, let's say, I don't
know, a party or a barbecue or a family get together and somebody brought up
climate change as an existential threat?
Has it ever happened? Cuz it's never happened where I've been.
I've never even seen anybody interested in climate change, much less afraid of it. no interest
whatsoever. So, is that different than your
experience? Because I'm very skeptical that 40% of the public
thinks it's like our biggest problem. And yet, nobody's ever, not once, 40% of
the public and not once has anybody brought it up where I could have heard it in person. Nobody.
Now, how many of you are having the same uh mental experience I had this morning,
which is, oh yeah, how could it possibly be true if nobody's ever brought it up
around me? Cuz there's nothing else they haven't brought up, right? You've heard people
say bad things about Trump. You've heard things about Ukraine and Gaza, the Middle East. You've heard you've heard
all kinds of things, but I'll bet you've never heard anybody complain about climate change. Yeah, I don't believe
it. Anyway, um the uh Pentagon
has announced is uh removing those National Guardsmen from Los Angeles. Remember, they were placed there to
guard the government facilities because there was a lot of protesting that was getting on hand regarding the ICE stuff.
Well, I guess the protests have wound down and the National Guardsman never
really had to get directly involved as far as I know, but they're being withdrawn.
Would we include that as a Trump success? I would. Wouldn't you? the the
point of the National Guardsmen was in case they're needed, but also as a
deterrent. So, they were there to deter, you know, bad actors doing violent things against
government properties. And as far as I know,
they succeeded. So the fact that there was no uh you know bloodshed or direct confrontation
seems to be another Trump success. All right.
Um there was a CEO according to the postm millennial Thomas Stevenson's
writing about this uh CEO there's a CEO of a marketing group that apparently is
in the business of organizing protests and the CEO of one of them says he was
he was offered about $20 million as a contract to organize anti-Trump protests
and he rejected it so he decided not to take
But the CEO of the company called Crowds on Demand. Um, and he didn't want to do the the uh
the protests that are going to happen on the 17th, which would be tomorrow, I guess. I guess a bunch of protests are
going to kick off nationwide tomorrow. And how alarmed are you that there is a
commercial entity that organizes protests that are meant to look organic
and he's completely public about it. I I feel that Trump is letting this one
um he's going easy on the protests, but maybe because they haven't been that big or that bad for Trump. But I feel like
the protests need to be branded as unnatural or non-organic
or at least paid. Um, so I don't know how many of the protesters are paid, but
if the organizers are paid like a lot, it's not really a real protest, is it?
It's like it needs some other name. If you call the protest, we have a long
history in this country of saying, "Oh, protest. I'm glad we have free speech.
Everybody gets an opinion. Protest is good." But it's not really a protest
because that would, you know, protest kind of implies that people had this opinion and they felt so strongly that
they they had to just band together. But if you're organized
by paid people who were paid to do it, that's not exactly a protest. What would
you call it? Uh, somebody says mercenary mobs. Oh, that's not bad. Mercenary
mobs. But that sounds like you're killing somebody.
What would you call it? Indeed. Indeed. Some kind of persuasive um nickname.
kind of a kind of a Trumpism. It needs something we can call it that
makes you not want to do it. So, we'll work on that. I don't have an idea for that, but but maybe Trump does. I've
just been calling them organized and non-organic, but those are not really catchy. Those are just descriptive. We
need something catchy. All right. Inorganic. Inorganic
protests. No, it's catchy enough. We could do better. Well, this auto pen
story refuses to die. To me, this is a summertime story where there's not
enough regular news, although there's more regular news under Trump than I've ever seen before in the summer, but you
always need a little extra for political purposes. So, I guess this auto pen
story um the White House is going to review more than a million documents
under the Biden administration. Um and they just want transparency. But
to me, all they're doing is making sure the autopen stays in the news because
it's really sort of a winner for Republicans, wouldn't you say? It
reminds you that the Democrats fooled you into thinking that Biden was functional. And that's one of the
biggest hoaxes, if not the biggest in the history of the
United States. So, as long as Trump can make you think about Biden and how that was covered up
and how that wasn't a real government, Trump wins. So, I would argue that
nobody really cares about the auto pen. Probably I doubt that Trump really
cares. Um, but it keeps it in the news. So, auto pen is more about making you
think Democrats are bad people. I guess it's working.
Um, CNBC's Rick Santelli on on the TV.
He says that Trump's tariffs are not dooming the econ economy according to the Daily Color News Foundation. Um, so
there might be a little bit of inflation, but it's too small that you can even
know for sure. And I guess the CPI numbers were pretty close to
expectations, the inflation numbers. So, some say we're still waiting for the
inflation that will come from these tariffs, and some say enough time has
already gone by to conclude that we're not going to see that inflation. I don't
know. Uh but I but I will tell you this and I'm gonna credit Dana Pino for the
for this thought because I agreed with it completely but she said it first
which is the right take on the tariffs was always I don't know
that was the only honest and kind of useful opinion on the tariffs because
there were people who were absolutely positive it would destroy the country.
Well, it's not the opinion that's the problem. It's the certainty. If you had
certainty that the trade wars and the tariffs were going to tank our economy,
well, you were wrong. I mean, what whatever happens, it's not going to be gigantic or destroy the
economy. I think I think we can rule that out now, right? So if you were sure
that it was a disaster, your certainty was sort of revealing that you're not good
at this. But likewise, if you were just as sure that because Trump said it would
make everything right, if you were just as sure that it would and it would, you know, replace maybe income taxes and all
these other good things, well, that wasn't a good take either. The only take
that I respect is I don't know. You know, we can reverse it. You know, it's
a sort of thing that is a really big ask and if it worked, it would be a really
big deal. If it didn't work, there would be some um discombobulation in the
economy, but probably you could just reverse it in a week. All you'd have to do is say, "All right, all right, that
didn't work." Uh, I changed my mind. Tariffs are dropped. So, from a
riskreward perspective, was it worth trying it knowing that if
it didn't work, you could just sort of reverse it? And if it did work, it would
really change America forever in a positive way. So, I'm going to give
Trump an A++ plus for risk management on our behalf. It
was exactly the right risk management because the upside was really good if
everything worked out and the downside was all manageable. If it didn't work,
well, reverse it. You will be fine in about a week.
Well, uh, Governor Nuome was on the Shan Ryan podcast
and, uh, if you haven't watched Governor Nuome speak on a podcast or in public
lately, you have to see what's going on with his jazz hands, do you know what I mean by jazz hands?
So, jazz hands is sort of a a comical way to refer to dancers who are doing
jazz dancing and and their hands get involved a lot. So, you know, if if
you're watching me on video, Jazz dancers like tada.
So, the so their hands are really involved. But when you watch uh Newsome talk, I do not recall him being that
animated as he is now. And his hand motions are not only,
you know, far bigger than they used to be, but they're a little bit creepy.
Like he was talking about some nuance in a bill and he does the piano playing.
nuance. All of a sudden nuance
and it is weird. Uh I'm going to be honest, it looks like drugs.
If you've known anybody who was on any kind of uppers, I don't I don't know
what it could be. you know, uh I'm not going to make a specific accusation,
but he acts like somebody who's on some kind of an upper.
Uh but again, I don't have any evidence of that. It's just that his behavior is
different. And uh if you've ever been around it, you know, around people who
who are using some form of stimulant, you would say to yourself, "Oh, that
looks familiar. I think I've seen that before." And I hate to say it, but it's hard for
me to imagine it just happened sort of on its own and that he just decided to
change his his method of speaking or something. I don't know. I feel like
there's something going on there. But just to be clear, I don't have any
factual evidence that would suggest, you know, that's what's going on. It's just
how it strikes me. So, as as an impression, it gives me that impression.
Um, but then also, I forget who it was. Was it was it Mark Cuban or maybe
somebody else who was talking about how Democrats need to swear more and do more
cursing? And I thought to myself, is that real advice?
Like really? The Democrats feel that in order to get the male vote or to be a
little bit more manly um or maybe just a little more powerful looking that they
could match Trump's use of curse words. To which I would give them this advice.
You know when you should use curse words in public? When you're Trump.
You can't just take that strategy and apply it to somebody who's not Trump.
The reason Trump could get away with it is that he's always in character,
meaning it's, you know, who he really is. It's not in character. It's genuine. When Trump curses, which isn't that
often, um, you can tell how strategic it is, and you know that he knows he's giving
you the sound bite for the next 24 hours. He knows he's doing it and he's
really good at it. He his cursing is never it never seems gratuitous. It just
feel it feels so I mean it feels like dropping one of those bunker buster bombs right down the
ventilation shaft twice in a row. That's what it feels like. He he lands the
curse word just perfectly and he's done it so many times that you know it's not
an accident. But then I watch uh Newsome on this podcast
and when he was told that uh uh told that Joe Rogan had texted in a question
for uh Sean Ryan to ask Nuome and Newsome says
um you know just because he he thinks it might be a tough question. So he uses
the mother effer and then uh later when he was questioned about how he handled
the pandemic he said everybody's a uh GD
genius. I know some of you hated to hear the Lord's name used in vain. So I'll just
say GD genius but he used he used the whole world. And I'm thinking to myself,
were those strategic uses? Did he do what Trump would do, which was
guarantee that that would be the sound bite and that you would laugh a little bit when you heard it? Not really, cuz I
didn't laugh when I heard it. And it's not just because, you know, he's not my favorite politician or anything like
that. It just it wasn't funny. It wasn't strategically placed. It just looked
like he's somebody who uses some foul language on a podcast. It didn't have
any effect. In fact, maybe it was a little negative. I thought to myself, well, why would you use those words
without using them strategically? I mean, it Yeah. So, so no, you can't
take people who are not known for this kind of behavior, you know, breaking the
the bounds of civility because that's what Trump is known for.
Trump's entire persona is very linked to, you know, violating the these social
boundaries. So, it makes sense when he does it.
Well, we have to talk about Epstein because again, it's a summer summer kind of topic. But, u Alan Dersowitz
continues to be one of the most interesting people on this topic because he was Epstein's lawyer. And he tells us
he knows what names are redacted and who accused who and all that stuff. Um but
he also says that he's sure that Epstein was not an intelligence asset for
anybody because he was his lawyer. And he says if he had been an intelligence
asset, the first person he would have told would be his lawyer because you would tell the lawyer so that the lawyer
could negotiate a sweetheart deal. Now, he did get a sweetheart or deal and some
say it's because the prosecutor knew he was an intelligence asset, but
apparently Durowitz never used that argument because he was never told that he was a
intelligence asset. But here's my question.
Durowitz didn't ask him. Are you telling me that everybody in the world suspected he was an intelligence
asset except for Alan Dersowitz? Is he the only person who didn't suspect it?
Really? Um and then then I present you with this
confuser. Um you you know I'm a big fan of Alan
Dersuit's public opinions about everything. basically he he just has a
smarter, more reasoned, more experienced um opinion on everything that's legal.
And but here's the thing you need to know.
If Alan Dersuitz himself were working for some intelligence unit,
wouldn't it be perfectly appropriate for him to lie about it? Because if you work
for an intelligence agency, aren't you sort of encouraged not to
tell people, isn't it isn't it a better play if you don't mention it? And if somebody asks,
aren't you supposed to say, "Nah, not me." And then there's also that gray
area, which is, well, you don't have to be on the payroll of an intelligence
agency. You could just be in favor of what they're doing. Maybe lend them a
hand now and then. Maybe they do you a favor later. Maybe you were just afraid
of what they would do if you didn't help them. But isn't isn't there a lot of gray area that would push both uh um
Epstein and maybe even his lawyer into a not necessarily an employee of any
intelligence agency but possibly on their side
possibly. So, as fascinating as that point is that
Epstein would have told him if he was an intelligence asset, the part that I'm missing is I asked him
if he was. Isn't that kind of missing? I don't know.
Um, and since we know Durowitz is very pro-Israel,
if uh there was any kind of Israel connection, would we expect that Ellen
Dersuitz would be the person who would let us know about that? I would say not
if it's bad for Israel. Um, he he's very open about, you know, being highly
supportive of Israel. He's he's an American first, but uh still I don't
know if he's the one we should believe when it comes to intelligence assets.
U but highly credible on other topics. And by the way, that has nothing to do
with Duruititz. I would say that's the same for anybody, right? If you put
anybody else in in the position of being Epstein's lawyer,
I would say, "Yeah, I mean, if you know something you're not supposed to tell people,
we get it." Um Glenn Greenwald found an old New York
Times article that uh said that Galain Maxwell's father's publishing group, you
remember Galain Maxwell's father was a big publisher, um that his publishing group admitted in
court that uh Seymour Hirs who wrote about the
Glane Maxwell and the father situation, I guess mostly about the father, was quote fully justified in accusing and
Robert Maxwell of working for Israeli intelligence. So, and we also know that um when
Maxwell died, he was given a uh official state funeral in Israel even though he
was not an Israeli citizen and that multiple former heads of MSAD
attended his Israel state funeral. again, he was not Israeli and they gave
him an Israel state funeral. So,
I would say the evidence that Galain Maxwell's father worked for the MSAD is pretty
darn good. Not confirmed, but certainly the breadcrumbs are there.
Does that mean that Galain Maxwell was a spy? No, doesn't mean that. So,
we're we're short of any kind of a confirmation there, but we got our
suspicions. And then you probably saw some fake news
yesterday. People asked me why I didn't talk about it. It was because when I saw it, I didn't trust it. So, my hunch that
it was fake news was right. So Marjorie Taylor Green is explaining that if you
saw something that said that the there were several House Republicans who voted
to block the release of the Epstein files, that was fake news. It's true in
some form, but it's the reason they blocked it had nothing to do with the Epstein stuff. It had to do with the it
was a procedural thing, you know, that it was either wrapped up with something they didn't want it wrapped up with or
there was some procedural problem. But no, there were no Republicans
who voted to not show the Epstein files to the public. That didn't happen. There
was something that might have headed in that direction that they thought had some flaws that had nothing to do with
Epstein. So, that did happen. but more fake news than real news.
All right, here's uh Trump um talking about the Epstein files and
he said to reporters yesterday, quote, I would
say that these files were made up by Comey. They were made up by Obama. They were made up by the Biden, and we went
through years of that with the Russia Russia hoax.
Now, let me give you some advice. Um, if you ever find yourself in a position of
having to cover up something and you want to tell a a lie about it,
never start your lie with these words. I would say
Trump literally started with I would say that these files were made up by Comet
Comey and the others. I would say if you start your explanation with I
would say you're basically saying I'm making this  up. Do you remember when OJ wrote
his book If I Did It. If I Did it. What
if you see if I did it on OJ's book, you say to yourself, he's telling us he did it. If your president say I would say
that these files were made up, that doesn't mean he believes that. If he
believed it, he would say, well, you know, the files were made up by Democrats, so you can't trust them. He
wouldn't say, "I would say it." Well, I would say it. I would. No, that's bad
lying. Um yeah, never never do that.
And then he said that uh he was asked about releasing more of the Epstein stuff and he said uh yes and uh that any
credible Epstein information should be released. Why do you have to add the credible
part? Well, I mean credible is sort of assumed in all information, right? that you
wouldn't present it unless it was credible. But he sort of drops that word in there like it gives you a little out.
It's like, well, there is more information, but it wasn't credible, so we didn't release it.
Now, if he had started with that, that might have been an easier sale if
he'd said, "You know what? We looked at everything and uh the only things you
don't know about that matter look to be low credibility. So we think it would
just make things worse if we release it because you remember what happened when the steel dossier got out? That was low
credibility. You know, wouldn't the country have been better off if nobody had ever seen the
steel dossier? Yeah, of course. So we don't want to make the same mistake
as the steel dossier. So, since it's low credibility according to our experts,
um, you know, I know I know we told you we would give you everything we had, but that doesn't mean the low credibility
stuff, right? That's not going to help you. So, probably that would have been a
better way to start. I don't know if it would have made other people happy, but it would have sounded at least like, oh,
that's a real reason. The other thing that I would have bought completely is if instead of saying that the files were
made up, I would have said, uh, we really thought there was going to be
some stuff there, but if it was ever there, it was already removed.
So, yes, you have every right to suspect that there's more to this Epstein
situation. We suspect it, too. But when we look at the files, we have to
conclude that either there isn't anything there or that whatever was
there was removed. Now, I would have I would have believed that if they said we were sure there was
going to be some stuff there, but when we dug down
when we dug down, there was nothing credible or there was nothing there at all cuz it it looks like it might have
been removed and we don't know how or when. I would have bought that. That to
me that sounds like exactly the sort of thing that would happen in the real world.
What are other people saying? Well, Dick Durban was on CNN and uh
he he says that uh Republicans must be hiding something because they're not as
forthcoming as they could be with the Epstein files. Now, that's a really good political attack and it looks like a
little bit like what even Republicans think is true, which makes it a good political attack. I don't know if
there's any truth to it, but it's a good political attack.
Um, Speaker Mike Johnson says he supports the idea of a Gain Maxwell
testifying to Congress. So, I guess that's an option that got floated. He was talking to Benny Johnson. So, Benny
Johnson got an exclusive on that. And, uh, Mike Johnson said, "I'm for
transparency. we should put everything out there and let the people decide blah blah blah blah. So that's always the
right answer, you know, to say you're for transparency. Uh Thomas Massie
introduced a uh a discharge petition to compel the Department of Justice to
release all relevant Epstein documents.
So that's happening. Um, I don't know if that's going to get any purchase, but at
least there's some motion to release everything. Um,
here's what I would like to see. And ask yourself why you haven't seen
this yet. I would like to see all the guards, just
the regular guards, not the management, not the warden, but just the regular
guards who worked in that area of the jail when Epstein died.
Why have we never seen them in public? because I did hear through a source,
which I think is probably credible, that there would be at least one of those guards who would tell you that the FBI
took the video away and there was nothing wrong with the cameras and they told them to shut up about it. Now, I
can't guarantee that that's true. I'm just saying that I heard it through a source
that I don't have any reason to question that there is a guard who has told somebody in person. Yeah, I was there.
The FBI took the video. There was nothing wrong with the cameras. Now, I'll say it again. I don't know that
that's true, right? Cuz I'm not I didn't talk to a source directly.
But why have we never heard from the other guards? There must be
what maybe a dozen guards who are there or have you know direct or indirect
knowledge of what happened because there's no way you could keep all of that from all the guards. So
there might be somebody who has something to talk about. Well, of course, the Democrats would
like to make a big deal about the division in the mega base because some
people are mad at Trump. And uh so there's a publication a left-leaning
publication called the bull work where somebody called Will Summer was writing an article about the quote um Epstein
civil war and MAGA and it listed on the cover five u MAGA p
I guess MAGA personalities who were in this alleged uh Epstein civil war. So
the names that they said are in the civil war are Roger Stone, Tucker Carlson, Steve Bannon, and me.
So there were only four uh figures who were mentioned, you know, on the cover. Anyways, the cover. So my
pictures on the cover of the story, etc. Now, did you know there's an Epstein civil
war? That I I feel like I'm in a civil war and nobody told me. I thought I was just
talking about it and speculating what could be true and letting my audience know. Am I in
some kind of civil war? Have I ever said, uh, you know, don't vote for Trump
because of this? No, absolutely not. I I think that it's trivial and that
whatever the reason is, even if it's the wrong reason. Are you going to throw everything that
you've gained away because of the one thing? Well, some people say yes, and
that would be your privilege to do that. I would say don't.
But I don't know that any of these people, Roger Stone, Tucker Carlson, Steve Bannon, or Scott Adams, would any
of those people say you shouldn't vote for Republicans in the midterm?
I don't think we would. Would any of them say you should stop supporting Trump in all the other things he might
want to get done? I don't think anybody said that.
So, a lot of people are sure that voters will decide to stay home, and they
might. Um, but I I just would disagree with the civil war part. What I think is
that the Democrats convinced themselves that Trump supporters were a cult and
that we agreed on everything no matter what it was. And then when they see quite obviously that that's not the
case, instead of going back to their own assumption and saying, "Oh, I I guess
we've been wrong for years, they were never a cult. It's just that they were on the same page that the followers and
Trump were in favor of strong borders. We weren't in favor of it because Trump
told us to be in favor of it and we were part of a cult. No, we just have the
same opinion. So when it got to Epstein and the opinions legitimately were
different, well then everybody can see, oh, it's not a cult.
So the way this this story should have been written is, uh, you thought MAGA was a cult, you're totally wrong. Here's
why. But instead it turned into Epstein Civil War.
as if as if I couldn't have a conversation with Roger Stone, Tucker
Carlson, or Steve Bannon and and somehow it wouldn't go well. Of course it would.
We probably wouldn't even agree disagree on much if we're, you know, really hammering it down.
All right, in other news, uh, OMG, the O'Keefe Media Group got a hidden video
camera conversation with a Johnson and Johnson lead scientist.
Now, let me give give some advice to the other lead scientists involved in uh uh
co vaccinations. If you go on a date,
don't talk about the things you got away with in your day job, don't do it because
there's a good chance your date works for uh James O'Keefe. But apparently
this uh lead scientist for J&J uh COVID vaccine area said um that the
vaccine was quote not safe and effective and it lacked research and it was rushed
and he said people wanted it so we gave it to them. And he said quote do you
have any idea the lack of research that was done on those products? You he was talking about the vaccines.
That's a lead scientist who basically threw his company completely under the bus.
So there's that. He said, "I mean, we basically just had a race to figure out
who could solve it best, meaning the various um companies trying to make a
vaccine." He goes, "At one point we just canned it, meaning we we canned the, you
know, the appropriate process." So,
uh, then James O'Keefe shows up like he does in these situations and he says,
"Are you so and so?" And the guy tried to the guy tried to say that he had the
identity wrong. So, that didn't work out. According
to Breitbart, uh the make America healthy again thing is is working a little bit because 35%
of US food industry is committed to removing artificial dyes from the food.
You know, I have the following question. Um,
were artificial dyes like right at the top of the list of things that were
maybe killing us? Because the artificial dyes, you know,
I'd always heard the issue, but I never really thought that was a top three, top
five health concern. Um, but maybe it was. Maybe it was much
worse than I imagined. So 35%'s a good start, but it makes me wonder, is there
something we should have been focusing on a little bit more, like just processed foods in general?
Yeah. Anyway, and and I'm a skeptic on the seed oil stuff.
Um I' I've seen arguments on both sides. I don't know how to, you know, create a
winner from that. Anyway, uh Trump is also going after
Adam Schiff for his alleged mortgage fraud, which involved uh having a house
in Maryland. So that would be, you know, close to DC. So that's where he would stay most of the time. But also having a
condo in California, which allows him to say he's a resident of California, so
that's how he can be our senator. Um but the problem is that he told the banks or
the IRS or both that they were uh both
um primary residents, but legally you can only have one primary residence.
So uh Trump is calling him out for claiming that he had two primary
residents, which is not legal. And I guess the documentation is pretty clear.
So there's not much question on the factual part. Um I I believe we have the
documents that show that he claimed they were both primary residents. Now that
would be a problem. Um so but Schiff um responded to Trump and
he said this. So, the president today is accusing me of fraud and the basis of
his accusation is that I own a home in Maryland and I own my home in California. Big surprise. Members of
Congress, almost all of them, own more than one home or rent more than one home because we're required to be on both
coasts. So, he is using my ownership of two homes to make a false claim of mortgage
fraud. So, do you see what shift did there?
He acted as though the complaint is that he has two homes.
That's not the complaint. That was never that was never even an
issue. Of course, Trump knows, as I know, and probably most of you know,
that if you're an elected official from some state that's far away from
Washington DC, you almost certainly have to have a place to stay where you live
and a place to stay where you work because you're going to be there most of the year. So, no, it's not about having
two homes. It's about uh specifying that both of them are your primary residents
because that allows you to save money. So, it's a a uh is it a tax savings? I
think it's a tax savings thing. So, the designated liar, as I call him,
Adam Schiff does it again. Um,
according to the uh Daily Caller News Foundation, Maryanne Angela is writing
that uh according to one pollster, GOP pollster, if you throw in Elon Musk's uh
America party, which we think will be formed because Mus says he's going to form it, uh the the Dem the Republicans
would lose the midterms. So, if uh Elon Musk does not create a
third party, uh Republicans have a narrow advantage in the midterms. I I think other
pollsters have it the other way, but whatever it is, it's going to be close. you know, narrow advantage one way or
the other. But if you throw in the third party, the America party, um it looks
like that gives the Democrats a closer to something like a clean win in the midterms. So, do you believe that Elon
Musk would finalize that party and knowing
that it would cost the control of the uh Congress? Would he do that? Would there
be a principle involved or um some bigger riskreward benefit that
I'm not aware of? Uh, I have some trouble believing that he would really do that
because I don't think he could recover from that reputationally. If Elon Musk
personally through his own efforts created that third party and and what
the public came to believe is that that's the only reason that the Democrats had a great midterm.
Even if it's not true, uh that would be very bad for Elon
Musk's, you know, brand going forward because everybody can see it coming. If
it were a surprise and nobody could have seen it coming, then you say to yourself, "All right, well, he gambled.
He got that one wrong. We wish it hadn't happened." But if you know what the
impact is, you're going to have to own that impact.
Do you think he wants to do that? I I'm going to bet against it. Um, you
know, anything's possible, but I'm going to say 65% chance that he decides it would be
too much of a cost to the country as well to him and his colleagues. If you
were a uh stockholder, well, I am a stockholder in Tesla and you knew that
the head of Tesla was going to do something that would permanently piss off at least half of the country,
would you be okay with that as a stockholder? I'm not okay with it.
I'm not okay with it. I mean, he's got free speech and he has the right to do it, but I'm not okay with it. Not even a
little bit. All right. Um,
I saw an article by Daniel Greenfield who uh talked about some polling in
Gaza. And let me see if you can guess what the answer is before I tell you.
You ready for this? Um how many how many palace well actually how many
residents of Gaza um and I guess resident means that you
had lived there or you are living there I don't know how many people are still there but how many residents of Gaza the
Gazins uh believe that Hamas is winning the war so far
believe that that go that Hamas is winning the for right now.
23% 23%
of the residents of Gaza believe the Hamas is winning the war with the IDF.
how you know uh we always joke there's you know if you're new to the podcast here
there's a running joke that doesn't matter what the topic of the poll is
roughly one in four people will have the wrong answer no matter what now how in the world
could you be a resident of of Gaza that's completely leveled and and Hamas
is hiding underground ground and getting wiped out a little by, you know, every day. How in the world do you conclude
that they're winning? Amazing.
But, uh, apparently 58% of people in or from Gaza acknowledged
that October 7th was a mistake. Um, and that's way down. After October
7th when it was fresh, 72% of the residents
thought that the Hamas attack was a good idea. What?
What? You would think at this point it would be obvious that was a bad idea, but no.
All right. Um, Zalinski
has said that uh Biden couldn't end the war with Ukraine and Russia, but he says, quote, "I'm confident President
Trump can." To which I say, "Oh, Zalinski finally
figuring out how to play this. Zalinski, you don't go to the Oval
Office and try to embarrass our president. That's not going to work out." And it didn't. Here's what you
need to be doing. Uh, Biden couldn't get it done, but I'm confident President Trump can. All right, now we're talking.
You should be flattering him. You should be complimenting his successes so far.
You should be saying that nobody in the world but Donald Trump would be the
right person to end this war. Why? Because that's what you that's what gets you some cooperation.
You know, show some respect, you're going to get some back. And at the moment he's gonna get a bunch of weapons
that the US is sending him. Um and uh
he he also he also uses the uh the Trump idea. Remember when Trump
would threaten uh she and threaten Putin and say,
"Well, they only have to believe there's a 10% chance they'll go through with it." Um
and and Zilinski is borrowing that technique talking about the offensive weapons that Trump is going to give him.
He says any offensive weapons provided by the US could force Putin to come to the negotiating table. Here's the
important part. Even if those weapons are never used,
that's a Trumpism. Trump is the one who says, "I don't have to do the threat.
You just have to think there's a 10% chance I might." And then you're going to get real serious about negotiating.
Silinski is borrowing his technique. We don't have to use the weapons. It might be enough that Putin knows we could.
There you go. Yeah, he's uh pacing Trump in just the right way. At least at least
that day. Um Trump was asked about the report that
he seemed to be in favor of Zalinski bombing Moscow using not bombing but
sending missiles into Moscow using the better um weapons that Trump and America
are planning to provide. But Trump says no that Zilinski should not bomb Moscow.
um despite the fact that Trump did say he wanted Putin to feel some pain. So
the Daily Mail, Emily Guden, is writing about this. Um
but there was a conversation in which Trump may have asked Zalinski if he
could bomb if he could attack Moscow with the American weapons. And I think
that Zalinski said yes, but it was more of a what's possible,
you know, what's doable. It wasn't a suggestion to do it. So Trump does not
support attacking Moscow. But
if Zilinski did attack Moscow, I don't know if Trump would be unhappy,
would he? He's just saying he's not in favor of it. But if somebody did it
anyway, could it put enough pressure on Putin that he'd want to end the war? I don't think so. I don't think that
Zalinski could um destroy enough of Moscow that would do anything except
increase Putin's support because once you attack somebody's capital, well,
people are going to back whoever is in charge of their country. So, it's not going to I don't think it's going to
hurt Putin even if Zalinski took part of Moscow. So, probably a bad idea.
Um Putin responded to Trump's threats that they would put 100% tariffs on
anybody who was doing business with Russia. Um Trump's or Putin's response
to that was that a Kremlin official says Trump's threats of tariffs are serious
and Putin will comment if necessary. He'll comment if necessary.
Isn't that really Putin just dismissing the whole risk of tariffs?
I'll comment if necessary, but honestly, he doesn't look like it's
going to be necessary. So, he's sort of brushing that off.
Um and then O is talking about how uh um the chief Pentagon correspondent Oh, um
we're looking at my own notes here. Um apparently the Department of Defense has
contracts with some big AI companies, at least three of them. So Google, OpenAI,
and XAI, and I think Anthropic. So they have these gigantic
um contracts for AI that I believe is tied to their Jeron um
plans. So remember I told you that within 3 years the Ukraine front line with Russia
will be an all robot war. There won't be people because the people will be killed
instantly by all the drones that have AI and are making their own decisions about
who to attack and when. So apparently the US is trying to sort of leapfrog the
other drone makers where you need a person to control each one. And if we
could build a whole bunch of drones in the US and provide them you to Ukraine
and those drones had AI built in so you didn't need a human operator for every
moment of its flight. Um that could change the war.
Now, what I don't know is if Russia with the help of China presumably could match
uh all the unguided AI drones that the US is likely to
provide. They could probably beat us in quantity,
but could they beat us in AI plus drones? And that's where I think we might have
an advantage. And that's why I think it'll turn into just a drone war. So that's my prediction. Within 3 years, no
humans on the front lines. It'll be the first robot war in the history of humanity.
All right, people. That's all I had to say today. I'm going to talk to the uh
beloved subscribers on locals because they're the best. You're pretty awesome,
too. But the local subscribers, oh man, they're the best. Um, don't be jealous.
All right, the rest of you, I'll see you tomorrow. Same time, same place. Thanks for joining. I hope you got something
out of it. And locals, I will see you privately in 30 seconds.