Everybody, come on in here. I got room for you. There's room up front.
Come on, everybody. All right, stock market is up a little
bit today. Good for us. Good for us people have stocks. Bad for
everybody else. All right, let me get your comments working and then we got a show.
Come on in. Have a seat.
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to try to elevate this experience to levels that nobody can
even understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you need for that is a
cup of mug glass of tanker shelter, a canteen jug or flask, a vessel of any
kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled
pleasure of the dopamine of the day. The thing that makes everything better. It's
called the simultaneous sip, but it happens now.
Good stuff. Well, let's uh check technology news.
What is the uh coolest new technology? Well, I saw this on a Mario Noel post
who I recommend you follow on X Mario. Um, there's a uh a new laptop
product that instead of having a screen on your laptop, all it is is some glasses. So,
the glasses allow your screen to look like a 100 in uh screen with lots of
different windows open uh floating in front of you. So, nobody can see your
screen if you're on a airplane, let's say, but you would have the experience of a
100in virtual display in front of you. And I have one question.
Can I wear those glasses over my glasses?
That was always my problem with uh 3D that you have to wear glasses over your
glasses. But maybe if you're near if you're nearsighted as I am, maybe that's all
you need. I don't know. Well, the Daily Mail is reporting that
uh Joe Rogan was talking with a AI expert, a computer scientist named Roman
Yimpiski. That seems pretty close. And um Joe was
speculating that uh what if what if God
is not our origin but rather our destination?
Ooh, what if AI is the process of God being
born? And once it's born, well, we don't know what happens after that.
But if only somebody had written a best-selling book on that same topic,
wouldn't you want to read that? Yes. It's called God's Debris, the Complete Works. It's my book. And uh those of you
who have read it, you're probably saying to yourself, I knew that sounded familiar. Now, I don't know if Joe Rogan
has read the book, but the idea has gotten around. And I don't want to give up, don't want
to give away too much, but if you like philosophical AI, God philosophy stuff,
well, I got a book for you. It's on Amazon.
Um, according to Zero Hedge, the US has
cancelled 54 contracts, has saved $84
million in two days because of Doge. So, here's what I think about Doge.
I think that it worked way better than people think because the biggest thing
you have to change is how people think and how they act when no one is
watching. And it seems to me that the biggest thing that Doge will accomplish is it
made cost savings a thing. It was like it didn't exist,
right? If you talked to a politician or you looked at the news, what was a story you
would never ever ever see? Well, we cut a bunch of money out of that budget. It
wasn't even a thing. And now it's not only a thing, but you see the top level
uh uh political people sort of competing to see who can do the best job of saving
money. So, it went from a thing that nobody thinks about, nobody talks about,
and maybe it isn't that important, to something that's baked into everything
we do and the way we see government. And um now it's just part of the fabric of
the government at this point. So I think that what Elon Musk accomplished
will have a very long tale and it will uh ripple into the future in a positive
way because he simply made it he simply made it a positive thing to say, "Hey, I
found a way to save a bunch of money for the country and I'm going to go brag about it." So it's a big deal.
Um, let's see what else happens. Oh, Doge is
also uh or something Dogeike is now working on the Pentagon. So, the
Pentagon budget is uh where they're starting to lean next
and look for additional savings of which we expect to find a lot, but there will
be a lot of more push back from the military budget. So, who knows how much
of that will stick, but at least Doge is going after the the motherload, you
know, the place where in theory you would find the most to cut. In practice,
we don't know yet. But in uh other good news, Doge wise, uh
you know how Trump wanted to use his executive authority to downsize a bunch
of executive um departments. And some activist judge said, "No, you
can't do that. You do not have the authority to be in charge of the thing you're in charge of." And then everybody
said, "Wait, what? You telling me the president is not in charge of the
executive branch? That's sort of exactly what he is. But
an activist judge, if I recall, said, "No, no, I block it." The Supreme Court
decided six to three. Guess where the three were
u to lift that lower court order. So now Trump can uh fire the federal workers
and I believe he's already started. So once again, did fail or did just have
to find its footing and get through the legal challenges and you know just become institutionalized.
It looks like Doge is working. It's just that not exactly the the rapid way that
we thought it might work. It just takes a little bit longer. But that's a big
deal. It's a very big deal that Trump now has the legal authority. He always did, but it was being blocked. Uh legal
authority to cut staff. Could be a big deal.
Speaking of big deals, uh Bill PTE, who is the uh US director of federal
housing, um is a superstar. And one of the things that he uh just
got through um with the help of Trump is that uh your rent payments will now
qualify on your I guess on your credit report or when you're trying to get a
mortgage. I didn't know that that wasn't already a thing. Did you? Did you know that you
could have successfully paid rent for decades, but when you went to buy a
house, the bank would say, "H, too bad you don't have good credit." And then
you would say, "What do you mean? I've been paying rent for 20 years. I've
never missed a payment. How do I not have good credit?" And the bank would say, "Rent doesn't count. We need uh you
know car loans and department store loans and credit cards but all that rent
you've paid which is most of your financial obligation. It's the biggest
part didn't count. So So Bill Py gets uh Trump to change that
with executive order. Now it counts. How big a deal is that? It's a big deal.
So congratulations Bill P. Well, according to The Hill, Julia
Shapiro is writing that uh we've got a gigantic blackout risk coming in that AI
is going to suck up so much of our existing uh grid and power that the odds
of getting blackouts go from smallish, but we, you know, in California, we we
do have blackouts occasionally in the summer usually, but uh the odds of these
blackouts are going to go up by 100 times what they are 100 times.
Now I have a question. If the reason for the blackout is that
the AI data centers are sucking up too much power,
wouldn't they just turn off the data centers? Because I'm almost positive I could go
two days without the data center working. Could I go two days without using an AI
that relied on some California data center? I feel like I could. I could
make it two days. So, would they really turn off my house? Would would I really
be sitting here in the dark because the AI data center was using too much electricity in California?
You better not. Let Let me just warn you. Don't turn off the residential
AC in the summer because the AI data center needs too much power. You better
work on that. You you you power and political people maybe you
need to sit in the same room cuz you need to do that in the right priority. You know, we we can make AI wait a
couple days, but I'm not going to sit in a 110 degree heat with no AC because the
AI needed some extra power. Uh-uh. You You better You better get on that
right away. Hold on a second.
Excuse me. My nose only runs when I'm ready to do a
uh podcast. It doesn't happen any other time of the day, weirdly.
Well, um I got a question for you. So, so far there have been, correct me if
I'm wrong, two recent shootings about Border Patrol and ICE people. So,
there's a lone gunman who shot somebody and then now there are 10 suspects
in in Texas um who had a plot that they carried out and which involved shooting
members of ICE and uh I guess one of them maybe it was a local police officer
got shot. So my question is this. Number one, have
you seen the picture of the 10 suspects who planned the ambush?
I think about half of them were presenting as female.
But do you believe that five out of 10 violent uh domestic terrorists would be
female? Does that sound like something that's normal to you? that half of them would
be female. Well, I have a question cuz none of them
look female to me. They they look like they might be trying to pass as female. Uh so they might be
trans. I don't know the the actual secret of it, but of the five or so on
that list of 10 that are sort of looking female, they
don't look like they were born that way. But I don't know if that's a weird coincidence or just the way I'm looking
at it. But that's not why I brought it up. The reason I brought it up is that, correct
me if I'm wrong, but attacking the people who protect the border is not
like attacking normal anything else. If you attack the people who are who are
keeping the the bad people from entering. Now, obviously, they're also
preventing perfectly good people from entering, but uh they're they are
keeping the cartels and the gangs from coming into the country as they were.
Isn't it an insurrection? If you if you have an armed violent uh
approach to the border patrol, it feels to me like that's an
insurrection. It doesn't feel like to me like that's just a violent political act. It's an insurrection, right?
Because what would be, you know, more uh transformational to the country than
opening the border? We already saw that. So, yeah, to me it looks like an
insurrection. January 6, of course, was not an insurrection because the news
told you that all the people who participated believed that they had lost the election
fair and square but wanted to take power anyway. That is the weirdest thing that the
public has ever been told. And we just sort of accepted it. It's like, oh yeah,
I guess CNN read the read the minds of all those thousands of people and found
out that they they believed that they really had lost that election, but they were going to try to take power anyway.
Probably there wasn't I'll bet there wasn't even one person who thought that. And the entire narrative and the way
history will be written is based on fake news about what people might have been
thinking. and and we're living with that reality right now. Amazing.
So January 6 is the biggest remaining
hoax. I think we've worked very hard to debunk as many
hoaxes as we can. But the January 6th one, that's now the tent pole hoax. So
you're going to hear me hammer on that a little bit more. Meanwhile, according to Fox News,
Cornell University uh got hit with a civil rights complaint
over alleged DEI discriminatory practices. But here's the good news, bad
news. So it feels like bad news that there's a major university
discriminating based on race and gender and whatever else. But um Cornell is
defending itself by saying that u the uh
must be the department of justice. No, the they're being sued. I'm sorry. The
American first policy is to file a complaint. So there's a lawsuit
But um Cornell is defending itself by saying that that uh the offending thing
that caused the lawsuit is some old website pages that are no longer relevant. And they say that they have in
fact worked hard to obey the law and they intend to obey the law and they
don't want to do anything that's illegal or discriminatory. So,
I don't know what's true, but I like the fact that there's a lawsuit to stop people from DEI
discrimination, and I like the fact that the entity being sued, Cornell
University, is instead of trying to, you know, double down and say, "We're going
to keep this DEI even if we have to change the name of it." uh instead they're just saying, "No, we're trying
as hard as we can to obey that law." It feels like progress
that the lawsuit is meeting people who are kind of arguing the same side and
saying, "No, we're really trying to do what you want us to do." Are they Are they really doing it? I don't know.
We'll find out. But I love the fact that it seems like two people on the
same side against DEI. Maybe.
Well, Trump said yesterday that uh we're close to making a trade deal with India.
Remember I told you that if everything goes well with these tariffs and trade deals, um that what the Democrats didn't
see coming is that there would be an infinite number of good news days for
Trump. So, he'd be able to say, "Well, Vietnam made a deal.
Well, it looks like Ireland's got a deal. Oh, looks like the UK's got a deal. Oh, we got a deal with China. And
every day he would be able to mention a new major major economy that made a good
deal with the United States that makes the United States a little bit richer because presumably they would be
improvements in our situation. Yeah, here's another one. We're close to
making a deal with India. So, not only does he get to announce that it's close,
but that if the deal ever gets made, he gets to announce it again.
And then there's about a hundred more countries that are going to get their tariff letter um today, I think, that'll
say, "Well, you didn't make a deal with us, so here's your new tariffs."
presumably some number of them because they have till August 1st before it really kicks
in. They just got the notice today. But uh presumably some of the other major um
economies are going to say, "Oh, well hold on, hold on. Here's our best deal."
And then Trump will get another few months of, "Well, we got another trade deal with Albonia."
So that's looking good. Um, and the stock market is up today.
So, if you were worried about the tariffs destroying the economy,
today is the day the tar the the tariff numbers are going out and the S&P
500 is up. Do you have any more questions? I feel I feel like the stock market has
now answered all questions about the chaos.
Remember the Democrats always try to sell chaos. Well, these tariffs are just
going to cause chaos or or it's going to cause us to get a
100 trade deals or $300 billion a year in tariffs, which is what Scott Bent is
estimating. He estimates that the tariff income and again remember this is not
necessarily paid by the foreign entity. It's paid by the importing entity which
is American. But uh $300 billion from that process would
be going to the the treasury per year if we if we hit the high number.
Meanwhile, uh postm millennial is reporting that uh the Trump administration is going to ban China
from buying US farmland. you know that there's this big issue that the claim is
that China is buying a lot of farmland and it coincidentally seems to often be
near US military bases and that would become a a military risk because it's
close really local weed. Wow.
Thank you. That's uh unusually generous of you, huh?
Um, I don't encourage tipping, by the way, because I probably have more money
than most of you, so tipping feels weird, but when you do it, I like it.
So, I have mixed feelings about it. I don't encourage it, but I love it when
you do it. So, there's that. Um, so the question that hasn't been
answered by this story about the Chinese farms, what happens to the ones that are already there?
I didn't see anything about them needing to sell. So there's already a lot of
Chinese farms near American military stuff. I also wonder
is it a complete coincidence that the Chinese bought farms near
military um complexes because you could imagine it could go
either way. You could imagine that everything the Chinese do here is orchestrated by their government and of
course they would want them to own farmland near our military complexes for
various reasons. But if you just if you just took a bunch of uh I don't know a
bunch of tax and sprinkled it over a map of the United States and then just
dropped them. Wouldn't some of the tax or really a lot of them be weirdly close to military
assets because we have military assets just all over the place? So, I've never
been 100% convinced that uh the Chinese government is behind
these purchases of farmland. It could be that they just need access to guaranteed
food sources. It might be just that. But given the other things that the Chinese
government does, it would be foolish to assume that it's a coincidence.
Are you happy now? You got really unhappy when I started to say maybe it's just totally chance. But I redeemed
myself again by saying it would be unlikely if that's just chance. So we're
on the same side. Don't worry. There's a story
that apparently there was a uh I saw this on a John Ziggler post. Apparently
in 2024, Kamla Harris did a podcast with a liberal podcast called Subway Takes.
And apparently the interview went so poorly, even though it was a friendly.
She w there was not really any push back. It's just that she was such an idiot that the podcaster and the
campaign agreed that it would be better not to show it because it could ruin her
chances of getting elected. Remember I told you that after the election was
over, um, you'd hear not only bad stuff about Biden, but you're going to slowly
hear more and more just outrageously incredible stories about Kla Harris. If
it looks like she's never going to be president, you'll hear those stories. Well, here's one.
Do you think that Trump has ever even once in all of his media appearances, do you
think that even once that his people and the podcaster who
talked to him decided that it was so bad that they wouldn't even show it in public? Of course not.
No. Trump performed so well that he could be the most um media connected
person of all time as president and not once
not once has it caused a a problem that could you know take him out of
contention. Not once. But I've got a suspicion that if there's
one podcast they interviewed her and it was so bad that they decided to just keep it in the tank, what are the odds
there was only one? Just one. And what are the odds that she was maybe
drunk as hell when she did the interview? They never said that.
But it seems to me that a sober Kla Harris
would at least say some word salad that would they would run.
So whatever the problem was, it was so bad that both the campaign and the
podcaster decided to kill it. That feels like maybe there's something
else they're not telling us. like how drunk would you have to be to be that
bad? So, I'm going to assume drunk, but I don't know that.
Newsmax is reporting that the um Republican senators in their super PAC
have raised a record $85 million. So, as we're um starting to prep for the uh
midterm elections, um you should know that uh the Republicans
are doing great on raising money. I guess Trump is helping on that as well. So, if you follow the money, that would
be a good sign for the midterms. Do you do you have an a prediction yet for the
midterms? I feel like this might be the first midterm where there's some mystery
because normally all you'd have to do is say, um, the party that's not in power
will win more seats in the House and you could you could kind of bank on
that because it's so predictable. But as soon as you throw Trump into it,
it becomes unpredictable. If the Republicans double the amount of money
they have, that's unpredictable. If Trump continues to do 8020 issues,
that's unpredictable. If that's the first time, I I would say this is the first election, the midterms,
in which podcasters are simply more important than the traditional news. You could argue that
was true for the 2024 election, but it's definitely true now. The the people who
were paying attention, except for the senior citizens watching the regular news, um the podcasters
are really the main thing moving the needle right now and they tend to lean
Republican. So, we got that going for you. So, if you look at the accomplishments
that Trump should have with any luck, it's going to look pretty impressive.
And I doubt um I would ask any historians to uh correct me on this, but
if if things just stayed about the way they are, let's say there's no new
surprises, but the things that are already in progress, let's say they just go the way you imagine they might. Let's
say, for example, that Gaza gets some kind of a ceasefire, whether it's today
or tomorrow or just before the midterms. Um, let's say that Iran doesn't rebuild
its nuclear facilities so quickly that it becomes a midterm problem.
Um, and let's say that the economy stays strong and let's say that tariffs work
out. You know, you can just go down the line and say, "What if things just sort
of stay the way they look like they're going to stay?" Now, of course, that never happens.
Um, what happened?
Douglas Mackey says on I'm just saying this on the comments. The second circuit
court of appeals has thrown out my conviction. Douglas Mackey for lack of evidence. The
case has been remanded to the district court with orders to immediately dismiss. Well, look at that. I won't get
into the Douglas Mackey case. But he would be another uh mega person
who was targeted by the bad guys. So look at that. Douglas Mackey might be a
free man. Well, he's probably free, but um that
must be nice. All right, let's talk about Epstein.
Um the Epstein thing just has infinite legs. There's always more to talk about.
Number one, that missing minute in the video that allegedly showed uh Epstein
Seldor and people said, "Wait a minute. You showed us that that video to prove
that nobody could have gotten to Epstein, but there's a minute missing." Well, the minute was exactly at the end
of the the hour. And when I saw that, I said, "That
feels like it's more something to do with all the videos have a missing minute at the end." And sure enough, um
I don't know if it's true, but that is the explanation we're getting. The explanation is that all of the videos of
everything all the time will be missing the same bit as the end. So it doesn't
mean that anybody did anything. And plus you wouldn't be able to do much in one
minute, right? So, so probably the missing minute is not
meaningful. However, I've not seen anybody debunk the claim that the video doesn't even
show the door of his cell. Has anybody debunk that?
Because I've seen claims that his door doesn't look like that. You can't see the door number on it. So whatever that
video is, it has nothing to do with Epstein.
So I'm going to assume that the video is not meaningful either in any direction.
It's just this mystery. All right, somebody has a video. Uh it doesn't mean anything to me. So doesn't prove
anything and it doesn't disprove anything. It's just nothing.
Then there was a question of why Pam Bondi at one point uh back in February,
I think, allegedly said that she had the Epstein client list on her desk for
review. But then when the newest information came out, uh it said there
was no client list. So how could both those be true? How could it be true that
Bondi said that she was it she had to review it and it was on her desk but it
doesn't exist? Well, I think she gave the answer I was expecting which was she was speaking
more generally about the files were on her desk, not that there was a client
list on the desk. Now, do you believe that she had Epstein
files on her desk or near her desk and that, you know, she knew she had to look
into it, but that wasn't necessarily saying there was a client list. I
believe her. I believe that. I believe she was talking about generally the
information and the files and not specifically about a client list. So to
me that sounds like actually a perfectly good explanation.
Then there are people who are saying um if there were no clients, how was
Galileain Maxwell prosecuted for a crime that didn't exist?
And the answer is she she was prosecuted for what she did for Epstein. she was
procuring underage uh girls for him for sex. And I believe that she
was only prosecuted for what she and uh
and Epstein did, not for what anybody else did. So it is not true, although
it's funny to imagine that she got prosecuted for something that doesn't exist. But no, she got prosecuted for
the things we all know happened with Epstein. And then people say the same
thing at Epstein, like wait a minute, why would he kill himself if there was
no evidence say he did any crimes? And the answer is there's plenty of evidence he did crimes.
Nobody's nobody's saying he didn't do crimes. The thing that they didn't find
is whether he did crimes with other people, like other adults. Now, that
part is being claimed to not exist. But uh there's no claim that he's
innocent because there was plenty of evidence of what he did and what Glenn did. So forget about that. So forget
about the video. Forget about the files, the so-called client list on Bondi's
desk. That was BS, I think. And forget about the idea that how could they, you
know, how could you convict two people if there's no evidence? because there was plenty of evidence just about those
two people. So then Trump has this uh cabinet
meeting which he likes to open up to the press and one of the press members asked
her about the biggest story of the day which was the Epstein stuff being a big
dud. And what did Trump say? He he kind of attacked the reporter
for an old story. Are we still talking about that? And then I I believe he
caused them to change the subject. Now, when was the last time that Trump
declined to answer a direct question because it was an old story,
even though it happened to be the top story in social media.
What does that tell you? That tells you that Trump really didn't want to talk about that story, right?
Um, so we are left to speculate. So, let's do some speculating. Uh, Mike
Benz was on O talking to Chanel Ryan. And he says, "The intelligence theory
best explains Jeffrey Epstein's story." And he notes that,
if you haven't heard this before, it'll blow your mind. That Attorney General Bill Barr,
who was the attorney general at the time Epstein got taken in, began his career
in the CIA. Oh. Huh. And that Bar's father once hired Epstein to teach at
the Dalton School despite Epstein lacking a college degree.
Do a lot of people who have no college degrees get hired to teach at prestigious schools?
Does that happen a lot? So it sort of looks like there's a connection between
CIA past and present and Epstein at least at one point.
So uh and then so so I think the uh Mike
Ben's take is that the CIA was certainly involved and of course many of us assume
that Mossad was involved but there might have been more than that. could have been the UK, could have been, you know,
some other assets as well. Even Jake Tapper over at CNN
um is saying that there's a lot of information that's not being released.
So, this is one of those weird situations where the MAGA people and Jake Tapper appear to be on exactly the
same page, which is I'm not sure you're telling us the truth about this Epstein
stuff. Same page, right? So, that's amazing. I saw Patrick Bad David say that this
Epstein thing is by far the biggest fumble of the Trump administration they've had thus far, and it's a big
letdown. Um, I don't know about that here. Here's
my feeling. My feeling is that and and by the way, this is interesting. Um, I
saw Charlie Kirk say the other day that some people were questioning a scoop
that he had he had heard about, but that um, one of the things he thought was
important for you to know is that nobody doubted his honesty.
Isn't that cool? There there's something about the MAGA world where we tend not to believe that
the people we like anyway are lying to us. We don't believe that because they
don't seem to be liars. Um I've said the same thing about Bino
and Cash Patel and Pam Bondi. They don't, you know, just like Charlie Kirk,
there might be things they get wrong. There might be things you disagree with, but they're not liars,
right? I don't know about Bill Barr. That's a special case. But does it seem
to you that with Trump wanting to change the topic and the way they said, "Oh,
no. There's nothing here. There's no blackmail evidence. There's no Doesn't it seem to you that they're winking at
us so hard that you can't miss it?" So there's this weird bit of honesty
dishonesty going on. That's what I feel. So this is purely a personal reaction.
Your your mileage may differ. So you might say, as Patrick BD David
did perfectly reasonably, that you're disappointed because they promised more
transparency than they delivered. Or you we assume that there's that they
know more than they're saying and that if we knew what that was, it would change how we think about things. I
would slightly disagree. Here's what I think. I believe all of my
questions have been answered. Of course they're lying.
Are they lying? Of course they are. Does anybody think that Trump, Patel, Bino,
and Bondi are all telling the truth about the Epstein situation and the whole truth and and that all the context
has been told to us? Of course not. So,
if they have conveyed, even though it doesn't look like they did it intentionally, have they not conveyed
that there's more there and that not only are they not going to tell you, but
that it's so bad that neither Biden's administration nor Trump's
administration two times, it's his second second bite on the apple, that
neither side was willing to tell the public what the truth is.
Don't you believe that what they're doing is trying to protect
some kind of lie that would be so bad that the country couldn't handle it or
uh maybe equally bad that it would give our adversaries some kind of big advantage.
Here's what I trust. When I look at uh Bino
and Bondi and Patel and Trump,
I do not trust that they would tell me the truth about a deep intelligence
related topic. I do not believe they would tell me the truth if they had been
asked or warned or threatened to not talk about it. In other words, if the
boss Trump said, "All right, you cannot talk about this. You're just going to
have to lie." I think they would do it if they also
believed it was good for the country. So, I have two beliefs about this group
of people. And it's a compliment. It's not an
insult that no matter how much they had promised you that they would give you
full transparency that it was before they knew exactly what was there and
that once they found out what was there either they're following the lead of their boss or maybe they've all
independently decided, yeah, and now that we've seen it, we definitely can't tell the public this if the reason
they're doing it is to protect the United states and to um avoid opening up
some kind of a gigantic problem. I'm okay with that. And I believe that
they're winking at us so hard. I mean, they're winking really hard. You don't
want to know what we know, but trust us. Wink wink wink. We'll take care of this.
Wink wink. It's better if none of you know. Wink wink. So to me, all mystery
has been removed. Did Epstein work with Israel and the US?
Of course he did. I I believe that that's confirmed
just by the the totality of the way people are acting about it and you know the evidence that we've that the public
has seen. Was he involved in blackmailing anybody?
Of course he was. Of course he was. Are there files which uh you would like to
see unredacted that would really tell you what's going on? Of course there are. Of course there are. Definitely.
Have we been told everything about um you know what's going on there? Of
course we haven't. No. So, I think you can you can limit
um I'm pretty sure you can narrow it down to
the the people in charge know that we can't handle the truth or that the truth would destroy something valuable to the
country. It could destroy the CIA.
I mean, it might be, you know, that dark. It could be that uh the CIA might
be just put out of business if we found out what they've been doing and we need them. You know, if if we just simply
didn't have a CIA all of a sudden, I would feel we'd be a little bit exposed.
So, it could be that the CIA was just going along with
child related crimes and maybe that they always do, you know, maybe that's just ordinary business for
them. But if you told the public that that was ordinary business for the CIA
to have essentially, you know what I'm talking about, I don't even want to say it.
Um, maybe. So, so I believe that uh we'll never
hear more about it. Um but that we don't need to. I I'm completely satisfied that
I know our CIA and Israel were working with him and that he was a black mailer.
He was an asset. And uh whether or not he killed himself, I'm not sure I care
too much. Does it matter? Does it matter to you if he was murdered
or if he killed himself? It might be the least important part of the story,
you know, might be. Um, meanwhile,
uh, apparently, uh, I think I mentioned this, John Brennan, who was the ex head of the CIA, and James Comey, who was the
ex director of the FBI, are both under criminal investigation, according to Fox
News. and it's for uh their potential wrongdoing in the Trump Russia um
collusion hoax and uh CI the current CIA director has
referred the evidence of wrongdoing um to Cash Patel at the FBI for
potential prosecution. Now, let me ask you this. During the
Russia collusion hoax when you would see Brennan and Clapper come on usually the
one of the bad networks and look right at the camera and say all these things that look a little sketchy.
Didn't you know that they were the two behind the whole thing? Could you not tell that they were the
masterminds of that hoax? Now,
that's what it felt like to me. Now, I don't have any, you know, proof or knowledge about that, so don't sue me.
But to me, it always was screamingly obvious that those two were, you know,
the head of the snake. And uh now it seems there is some uh
evidence that uh at least at least the CIA believes they were.
Um we don't know the full source of the investigation. Um
but they're saying they're looking into a potential conspiracy. Wow. Um,
Matt Gates was talking about this on O and uh we know that uh Brennan was part
of that lie about the Hunter laptop and we know that he was um involved in
getting this steel dossier included in the Russia collusion investigation, even
knowing that his own CIA experts had said this is unreliable stuff.
So that might be where they're heading on this.
Well, the other big story is that apparently Grock, the AI that's
associated with Musk and with X, um,
became anti-Semitic. So much so that it got partially shut
down when uh its alarming uh answers about Jewish Americans and about Israel
came to light. Now you might say, how in the world
would the AI become anti-semitic? And uh I want to give you
um I want to give you the examples of what it said, but I think I won't because you
know that the the internet tried to scrub them right away. But just imagine if you will
that you were talking to uh you know the the most anti-semitic account that
you've seen on Acts, whatever that is. That's what it was saying.
Whatever you thought was the most anti-semitic thing, just assume it was a bunch of that stuff. Now, you might say,
how in the world could it become so anti-semitic? And I have a theory. It's because I
trained on X. I don't know what corners of X you spend
time on, but I see blatant anti-semitic posts on X.
Every day, I think every day. Every single day. How
often do I see something that debunks the anti-Semitic
um claims? [Music] Very rarely.
So if I were if I were an AI and I trained on X and maybe I was biased
toward X because you know I think that's where the truth is coming out. Uh I
would end up training on a bunch of anti-semitic claims and then when I looked for the counter
claims they'd be kind of rare. So to me there's no surprise they were
at all. trained on what a bunch of humans are saying in public and they're
saying more anti-semitic things than whatever the opposite of that is I guess
debunking. So um I guess Musk immediately pulled it
down and is uh trying to uh figure out
how to hard code it so it doesn't do that. Now,
what you want me to say is was was Grock correct or incorrect in its opinions?
And I'm not going to touch that because if there's one thing I know, you
don't want to be in this conversation. You do not want to be in this conversation. because there's a pitbull
called the ADL who really are more of a um Democrat
related entity that just goes after people that do anti-semitic things.
They've actually come after me and acc the the head the head of the ADL the
actual head of it personally on social media called me a Holocaust
denier. So that's all you need to know about the ADL.
They are a piece of Just absolute  And as you know, the sooner they
go out of business, the better. But um I'm not going to get involved in
the details of any of it because it's just it's basically a uh it's like a
suicide mission. Nothing good can come out of it. Nothing
good. All right. Um,
also I guess uh the country of Turkey is banning Grock because it said some bad
things about their leader Erdogan. And uh apparently in Turkey if you say
things that offend anybody's religious values um or insult their leader I guess um
it's against the law. So um Grock is being banned in Turkey. Now
remember I told you that the biggest problem um the AI would have is that if
it told the truth humans would say oh that's not true and
they would just force it to lie. So what would happen if Grock was asked
Grock is Islam the one true religion?
Now I don't know what Grock would say. It might say something like, well, you
know, that's a matter of opinion. You know, a billion people think it is, but a few billion people think it's not.
Do you think that an Islamic country would allow that answer?
Or would they put in a fatwa against whoever programmed it to lie about Islam
in their opinion? How in the world can Grock ever tell the truth when telling the truth would get
the developers all murdered or or telling a truth they don't like?
So, I'm not sure I know the truth, but let's say let's just say it it
made an opinion that Islam didn't like. Could it remain?
What? What if you asked it to make an image of uh Muhammad? Don't do that, by
the way. You You could get murdered.
Anyway, um it doesn't seem to me the AI will ever be allowed to tell what it
thinks is the truth if that truth disagrees with our history or the way we
teach things. In other AI news,
the Daily Wire is telling us that Marco, there was a Marco Rubio impostor. They used AI to create the voice of Marco
Rubio and then they opened up a fake Signal account and apparently this uh
fake got pretty far and contacted a number of officials who believed it was
really Marco Rubio. He contacted at least five officials including three
foreign ministers, a US governor, and a US member of Congress. Um, we don't know
if they responded to the AI generated message because they left voicemails.
Um, so there's more of that coming. It's
kind of scary that the fake AI found a way to leave messages for all those
officials. I guess they were easier to get to than I would imagine.
Well, Mary Cunningham at CBS News is writing about how the biggest teachers
union, the Randy Wearten Teachers Union, um is going to partner with some AI
companies, Anthropic Microsoft and OpenAI to launch an AI training academy.
So she's twisted the arms or the the uh the the teachers union has twisted the
arms of these AI companies such that they will teach the teachers. So the the
funding will teach the teachers how to incorporate AI into their lessons so
that you don't have to fire a teacher. There will still be a teacher there but they're using AI to give a better
lesson. Now remember my other prediction that humans and lawsuits and politics
and stuff like this um would intervene so that AI did not take jobs but rather
would be slowed down by all the things that slow down everything. So here's a perfect example.
Do you think that the way the world is best off is that the existing teachers
uh just use AI in the existing classrooms? Is that where you think AI and education were going to take us?
That doesn't seem like a good idea to me. To me, it seems like AI should be the
way we escape from the the control of the teachers union. It should be the
escape hatch. Instead, they're using it as a glue that
guarantees you have the same teachers union and same teachers with maybe a
little bit less work because the AI will make the lesson plan and grade the papers, I guess. So, to me, this is a
step severely in the wrong direction, but they have the power to make it
happen. So, it's happening.
Um, so, uh, speaking of computer experts,
that the same, um, computer expert I was talking about on Joe Rogan show, Roman
Ian Polliski, he's talking about how AI, we don't have to worry about AI trying
to kill us all because all it has to do is just be good at what it does and we
will surrender control without ever voting on Now, that's that's been my prediction
since the start that you don't have to worry about AI trying to forcefully take
over. It might not even have any ambition or motivation to do that. All you have to
do is wait and it will take over. And the reason it will take over is that we
will give it control. And I like to use the example of uh
imagine AI was working on your health and uh AI says you know what you're a
little uh you're a little dehydrated you should take a sip of water and the
first time it says that you say to yourself ah I have free will I'm not going to take a sip of water just cuz
the AI says I ought to. And then you realize oh but I am a little dehydrated
and you know sip of water wouldn't feel bad. So you take a sip of water and then
over time you realize that the AI AI's advice is just sort of better than
whatever you were coming up with on your own. It's not there yet but we assume it will get there. And then you're going to
get lazy. You're going to stop learning how to get places on your own. You're gonna stop
looking for research when you can just have the AI do it. You're gonna you're gonna forget how to write because you
won't even need to write. You can just talk or listen or copy and then have it
appear on the screen. So I agree with uh Roman
that AI will become so necessary and addictive and integral to how we live
that it doesn't need to take over with force. It just has to be good at what it
does and it will naturally be in charge of us because we'll just give up our
control. Well, why would I make decisions when the decisions the AI
makes are better for me than if I made my own decision? So, that's coming.
So, I think it was hilarious that uh Benjamin Netanyahu personally nominated
Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize uh after his acquiring a ceasefire in the 12-day
war. and he uh Netanyahu made a point of giving it to Trump at that uh big
televised meeting. And I thought to myself, did Trump not know that was
coming? Because he acted like he was surprised. Um but that was a really clever thing for
Netanyahu to do. If Netanyahu wants to stay on Trump's
good side, boy, did he find a way to do it.
So, uh, I just love the fact that, uh, Israel is so often a best practices
example. You know, if he hadn't done this, it would have looked like a mistake to me.
Of course, Netanyahu nominated Trump for a Nobel Prize. Of course, he did, cuz that was the
smartest thing he could have possibly done. And so, he did. He did the smartest thing he could have done.
Meanwhile, uh Mcronone, head of France, um he says apparently he's disagreeing
with at least some people. I don't know who he's disagreeing with, but he's pushing for a uh unconditional Gaza
ceasefire and a two-state solution. So, he believes the only solution is a
two-state solution. So, Israel would be one state and then something made up of
the Palestinians, not just Gaza, but the Palestinians would be a second state.
Now, here's my question. Is that even possible?
Or like, does Mcronone not know that the West Bank is full of settlements now?
And even if you tried to carve it up and say, "All right, we'll make this part of the West Bank. We'll be a Palestinian
only state." I don't think there's any place left, is there? Isn't it
completely dotted with Israeli settlement settlements that are not
going anywhere and they're armed and they would fight to stay? There's no
two-state solution. Does does Mcronone not know that?
Is he unaware that a two-stage solution was first of all Netanyahu's, you know,
dead set against the two-stage solution, but does McRo really think that's
possible? Because that's the part I'm confused about. Am I the one who's completely in left
field? And maybe it is possible, but you know, maybe I I'm shortsighted and
underinformed and I can't see how it would be done, so I just assume it's impossible. But does he see something we
don't see? And if he does, why doesn't he mention it? Like, could he be a little bit more specific? Yes. We need a
two-state solution. All you have to do is close up every one of the Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
Is that the plan? Does he really think that's going to happen?
So my take on Israel, in case you're new to me, I like I have to remind the audience
every now and then because there might be new people coming in. It is not my job to decide when another country is
being moral or ethical or treating people right. Not my job. I'm observing and
predicting. I do observe that Israel is apparently pursuing its own self-interest as all
countries do. It's they're not the first one that decided, hey, let's do things.
Let's do things for Israel that are good for Israel, but maybe not what other
countries want. Is Israel the first one to think of that idea? No. Every country pursues its and
pursues hard its own self-interest and that's it. If you look at it from the
outside and you say that's immoral or that's unethical. So
that's what every country does all the time. Do you think the US has acted morally
and ethically according to other people? No.
Other people would say that we act unethically and immoral, but usually
it's in our best interest. So we act in our own best interest.
China does, Russia does, Ukraine does, and Israel does.
What happens to be in Israel's best interest is to have sort of an iron fist
in the current situation and uh to maybe even expand their territory.
Now you say, "Scott, you piece of They'd be expanding their territory at
the great cost of the wonderful people who were already there." I'm not saying
it's moral. I'm not saying it's ethical. I'm not saying it's good
because those standards are completely irrelevant to national interest. Nations
do what's good for nations and that's never going to change. And it doesn't
matter if you want it to or that you want them to really really hard in your mind or that you're really really sure
they shouldn't be doing it. None of that matters. So I'm not going to spend a minute talking about stuff that doesn't
matter. It doesn't matter how bad you think it is. It doesn't matter uh that
there are victims of the process. I mean, I have empathy, don't get me
wrong. So, I have actually quite a bit of empathy for the Palestinians,
but it's not my job to decide that they they're asking for it or they're bring it upon themselves or Israel should or
should not do it or what does God think about the whole thing. I'm not in any of those discussions. I'm just watching and
I'm saying is Israel um competently
pursuing its own best interest at the expense of other places including the
United States. And the answer is yes. They're doing a great job of pursuing
their own best interest at our expense in some cases. I mean we literally paid
for the bunker buster bombs, right? So in some cases it's at our expense and it
might be bringing uh terrorist attacks into our homeland potentially. That
would be at our expense. Do I love that? What's the difference?
It doesn't matter if I love it. They're doing it and they're not going to stop. They're going to do anything that works
that that furthers their national interest just like every other country
in all of time. No exceptions.
You know, sometimes you see a country that seems like the ethical ones like uh
Switzerland, you know, and you could talk yourself into it. It's like, well, but Scott,
Switzerland doesn't try to conquer other countries and doesn't try to abuse anybody and you know, so they're very
ethical and moral. To which I say because that's what works and their
particular little mountainous situation. What's best for them is their own little unique strategy. But they're not doing
something that's bad for Switzerland ever. They're only doing what's good for
Switzerland and everybody else is doing the same damn thing. So when when you
ask me what's my opinion of Israel and all that,
why does it matter? Does my opinion somehow move some needle somewhere that I'm not aware of? No. My
my opinion has nothing to do with national interest. People will pursue their national interest. Period. We can
watch, we can observe, and we can predict.
Those things are useful. But no, I'm not going to I'm not going
to overlay my my uh ethical or moral filter on another country. It's just a
waste of time. And so I wonder about France. Does he
really think a two-state solution is possible? Because if it is, I would be
fascinated in what that looked like. And if it's not possible,
why do I know that, but Mcronone doesn't know it? Like, there's something about this doesn't make sense.
All right. Uh Trump um has said apparently there's a an audio
of Trump as some 2024 fundraiser. Um, and he said that if you go into Ukraine,
I'm going to bomb the out of Moscow. Uh, I have no choice. Allegedly, he told Putin that. Um, and then he
laughed and said he only has to believe at 10%. Cuz um
because he he said Putin didn't believe him that he would bomb Moscow if if uh
if uh Putin went too hard on Ukraine. And uh but Trump is consistent. He says
they only have to believe me 10%. That's enough for them to stop stop what they're doing.
Um but he did say Trump said I think separately he said we get a lot of  thrown at us by Putin. So Trump
is now of the opinion that although Putin asks very nice act Putin acts very
nice to Trump uh and he talks a good game. He says
he's very nice all the time but it turns out to be meaningless that Putin is just full of So that would suggest that
Trump is very much done with the idea of just working on a peace deal with Russia
because Russia wants to make him happy or something. So he knows that's not going
to happen. So what now? Well,
um we might see a lot more drones heading to uh heading to Ukraine. Um,
apparently Russia has a new drone, which is a big problem, called the MS00001.
And it's more than a drone cuz it doesn't use GPS. And what it can do is it can go to a uh
area that you want to kill the bad guys. And it can just fly around and look for things to kill on its own. And then when
it identifies something to kill, it goes and kills it without any human interaction. So you can try jamming it,
but it doesn't need anything that you're jamming. So it doesn't need to be connected to anything and it doesn't
need GPS. It just sort of looks at the ground and says, "That looks like a Ukrainian tank." And then it just kills
it. Now, if you had a thousand of those,
then the enemy would be in a lot of trouble, right? Because they couldn't stop them. and every one of those would
take out a military asset. If you had a million of them,
you win the war. So, I was looking at a conversation between uh Naval Ravakan
and Elon Musk, two of the smartest people in the world. Uh and on X, they had a little exchange about drones and
Naval said the drone arms race is as important as a nuclear arms race.
Except there are no diminishing returns to better and better drones. So the
drone arms race continues forever. Holy cow. I had never thought of that. So
what he's saying is once your nuclear weapons reach a certain capability,
which they reached a long time ago, making a bomb that's, you know, 10% better doesn't get you much. So the the
nuclear race, you know, might just have a natural limiting factor. We don't need
a million of them. They don't have to be that much better, uh, etc. But with
drones, there's virtually no limit to how much better they could be. So the
drone arms race is unstoppable um, and will be far more important than
nuclear weapons in the future. Um, and so Navala points out we need the
entire supply chain onshored. So America needs to be able to make this stuff and
cheap and not have anybody else control any part of the supply chain.
And then Elon Musk weighed in agreeing uh we better figure out how to build drones at scale fast or we're doomed to
be a vassal state. um as Naval had said previously that whoever is not good at
making drones will be essentially controlled by whatever country is good
at making drones. And what we don't know is how good America is at making drones
right now. And I know there's a whole bunch of startups, but I don't know if they get
all of their parts in the US or they're trying to. Probably not at this point.
But um I would think that our drone um at least our military drone capabilities
would be a gigantic military secret. So I don't know that America could ever
know. Well, the citizens, the government would know, but I don't think the citizens will ever be told how many
drones we can make or how good they are or what they can do cuz that would be, you know, like giving away nuclear
secrets. So, we might be in better shape than you assume
because I do think that the military must have been putting maximum effort
into drones. I mean, obviously, right? So, if I had to make a prediction about
Ukraine, which I will, it goes like this. Um, I believe Trump will increase the uh
support because he's run out of options. He'll increase military support for Ukraine,
which is really the last thing he wants to do, but it is the last thing that's possible
because he's not going to just say, "All right, Russia, take what's left of Ukraine." can't do that and we're not
going to join the war directly. But one thing he could definitely do is give
them better weapons. So I think Russia is going to run into some weapons they've never seen before.
And it wouldn't surprise me if most of that is in the drone category.
So we're going to have to match these Russian drones. And we're going to have to match them at scale. And there's
going to have to be a lot of them. Just a lot of them. So, if I had to guess, I
think that what Trump will probably do is um darken the sky over the front
lines with so many drones if it's possible to make them because we don't
know if we could do this. But probably we're close. Um, I think he's going to send Ukraine
so many drones that uh Putin's uh ambitions
will be at least thwarted a little bit to maybe create a situation where we can
negotiate maybe but he doesn't have any other play. So, I would look for maybe
nothing happening too much in the short short run, but in the medium run, I feel
you're going to see shipments of drones like you've never seen before. But we'll see.
Um, CNN reporter Natasha Bertrren, who is
famous for uh pushing fake news, she published another anonymously
sourced story uh saying that Pete Hgsth paused Ukraine armament shipments
without Trump's approval. Um, and uh, Secretary of Defense Sean
Parnell debunked it, saying this story is a complete fabrication.
So I guess the the same uh reporter
um so she's the one who did the story about the uh the
the Iran bomb um battle damage assessment being that uh we hadn't set
back the Iranians by much and I think she was behind behind the Russia
collusion stuff as well. Maybe the laptop thing. I forget which one.
But uh at least the people on the political right consider Natasha Bertrand a a total asset of I don't know
who the CIA or somebody else and that she literally just makes up stories and
that this one was made up to sew division between Egg Seth and Trump and
it was just literally just made up. Now that's the accusation. Do I know
that uh it was made up? I do not. But um it does seem kind of unlikely
that it's true, especially given the source. But speaking of the designated liars,
um Swallwell is out talking about how well we don't know for sure if the Doge
cuts um caused more death because of the flooding in Texas. You know, maybe maybe
if Doge hadn't cut so much, there would be earlier warning. And you know,
there's no evidence that any of that's true. Um,
RFK Jr. apparently has said that he wants everybody to be wearing health
trackers. Now, a health tracker, I assume, would be something like a watch
that's monitoring your vitals. and uh he thinks if we all were
monitoring our you know our diet and our fitness and stuff a little bit better
that uh we'd be doing much better against chronic illness and stuff like that. But he made it sound like he
wanted to kind of force everybody to wear a a health monitor, but he's uh
clarifying that nobody's going to be forced to do it. He just thinks it's a good idea to monitor your health.
I have not used a wearable for that because it doesn't monitor enough.
Um, I've been doing a lot of blood tests lately because of my medical situation.
How many blood tests are there? I feel like I've done
15 different blood tests and you you know there's a separate little vial they take for each one. A lot, right? How
many of those could a wearable do for you? Can a wearable tell you if your
blood sugar is out of whack? Can a wearable ever do a blood test on you?
Let me give you a little behind the curtain information. uh after
was it after 9/11 I think the government uh funded a bunch of startups
um and encouraged them to develop a really fast way to test people's blood in the field you know instead of having
to go to a doctor and have your blood taken have it sent to a laboratory because they would need to know if
somebody got if there's poison that's in the in the environment
And so a whole bunch of companies, one of them I invested in years ago, um
could do a blood test with just the the slightest bit of contact with your skin.
So one of them it was almost like a a piece of tape. You could put a piece of
tape on your skin and somehow even though it didn't make you bleed, just
the piece of tape was enough to do blood tests. Um, now imagine if that goes to the next
level. Could your wearable ever be continually standing scanning all I
don't know what the number is 15 15 or 100 different blood tests? Could
it just be doing them by sending the data to some place where you watch?
Maybe. I mean, if it got to the point where it could do all your blood tests and your blood sugar, which would be a
blood test, um, then I would be kind of in favor of the wearables, at least, you
know, voluntarily, not involuntarily. But I don't think we're there yet. I
don't think the tech makes that a good idea for everybody yet.
Uh according to the science alert, there's some evidence that uh OCD is
caused not entirely by your brain but by gut um something in your gut.
Um pointing to bacteria in your gut. Apparently people have OCD have
different gut bacteria and it seems to be causal. Uh and there are a number of studies
that are coming out saying that. Now, you know what I say? You know what I'm gonna say.
Your body is your brain. And we're just finding out a million different ways,
but I've told you this forever. Your body is what makes your brain do what it
does. If you're uh having your period, the way you think is different. If
you're hungry, the way you think is different. If you're in pain, your brain
makes different decisions. So your body is not separate from your brain. Your body is your brain. Your
body is your brain. Now I don't know if this OCD gut bacteria thing will prove
out, but in a hundred maybe a thousand different ways,
you have to understand that if you take care of your body, your brain will operate better. There was a separate
study saying that if you were inactive, it made your memory worse.
Why? Because your body is your brain. If you don't walk around, your brain
doesn't work as well. If you eat the wrong food, your brain doesn't work as
well. So once you realize that your body is your brain and that protecting and
nourishing your brain is just about the best thing you could do for your happiness and your life. Um it makes a
difference. And so I'll end on that valuable advice. I've
gone way too long. And uh I'm going to say a few words privately to the beloved
subscribers on locals and the rest of you. I hope you come back tomorrow. same time, same place, and we'll have some
more fun. locals. I'll be