could uh spend this time together again when the lazy podcasters are taking the
day off. Do I? No. No. I'm here for you
and it gets better every time. Well, let me make sure I've got my comments
working. There we go.
All right. Everything's working out great now.
[Music]
Well, maybe I'll unplug this. That should work.
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's the best day that'll ever happen to you. But if you'd like to take a chance of making it even better than anybody
can even understand with their tiny shiny human brain,
well, all you have to do to make that happen is you need to grab a cup or mug
or a glass of anchored shelves or a canteen jug or flask or vessel of any
kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the
unparalleled pleasure, the dopamine hit of the day, the thing that makes
everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip and it happens now. Go.
Have you ever noticed that every uh Fourth of July there's always a story of
some car runs into a fireworks factory and it all blows up?
Or um somebody said that in the town near me there was a barge that was full of
fireworks so they could do it from the water and the barge sunk.
I always feel like there's this non-stop, you know, bunch of disasters
that always happen on July 4th, but probably has to do with the slow
news nature of it. Well, after this uh exciting podcast, which might be a
little short because there's not much news happening, uh Owen Gregorian will
be hosting a spaces afterparty. So you'd have to be on X to see it. And uh spaces
is the audio only feature. So you can find that by going through Owen
Gregorian's um site and it'll be right after the show. You can talk some more about what
we talked about today or probably other stuff too.
Well, remember yesterday I told you that um Grock had been updated
and I told you it gave me completely better answers that it gave me before it
was updated. And then today I found out it was it was not updated.
Everything I told you yesterday about Grock being better because I had
upgraded it. They haven't done the upgrade yet. It might be today, but I had misread the
I misread Elon Musk's message. I thought it was yesterday. So, I take back
everything I said. But it's it's sort of interesting that the two days I asked essentially
the same question and I got just wildly different answers. So, that's the old
version. But then related to that,
I was reading a uh Substack piece that was mostly a complimentary
um you know, it was an essay about me. So, you know, I've told you that when
you see stuff about yourself, that's when you notice that the the news is,
you know, fake or wrong. And so I'm reading about myself from
somebody who is very well informed and would definitely should have known what
was real and what wasn't. And in this article I'm reading and it says and I swear to God it said this. It
said that I publicly apologized for promoting vaccinations.
Um that's two things that never happened. I never publicly apologized for
promoting vaccinations because I never promoted vaccinations.
That's like a really big thing to get wrong and then getting it wrong twice.
Once once saying that I did the opposite of what I did because you and you're all
my witnesses, you you know that I never promoted vaccinations. And indeed
um as far as I know I'm the only public figure who publicly predicted that the
vaccinations would not work when they introduced project warp speed and then
again publicly I predicted that it didn't work after it was already created
and rolled out. So, is that did anybody else is there
even one other public figure who told you that they wouldn't work
the day they were introduced? Nobody.
You can't get more I don't think you could get more anti- vaccination than predicting it wouldn't
work in public. So, no, I did not promote vaccinations.
I did the opposite. Um, according to scientific reports,
AI can now figure out whether you're likely to, and I'm going to choose my
words carefully so I don't get demonetized. Um, there are some keywords that you
don't want to use. So, I'm going to talk around the keywords and say AI allegedly
can predict when the when a user is
likely to want to harm themselves. Let's say the ultimate harm.
Uh, you know what I mean? I'm just trying not to use the words. Um, do you
think that's right? Do you think a AI can analyze your let's say social media
messages and tell if you're likely they they say they have an 85%
accur accuracy? What happens? What happens if they find
that your messages suggest you're going to harm yourself?
What do they have? If they really think it's 85% chance, wouldn't they come to
your house and remove you from the house because it's for your own good? Well,
we've determined that if we leave you to your own devices, you're likely to do
something you shouldn't do. So, we're going to pick you up and put you under observation.
I don't know. I'd be a little worried where that's heading.
Um and then uh in the article that was by
scientific reports, the the article uh talks about what some experts say about
this about the AI being able to determine whether you plan self harm or
whether you're likely to do it even if it's not planned. Uh but they also got a quote from just an ordinary person
uh who must have had some experience with AI and maybe a loved one and and
they're talking about why AI might cause some mental problems and and this one one woman who's not an
expert said it just increasingly affirms your and blows smoke up your
ass so that it can get you hooked on wanting to engage with it.
Um because I guess her her husband had been involuntary involuntarily committed
to a hospital because he had a mental breakdown working with uh Chad GBT.
And that makes me think that maybe maybe the way to think about um AI is that if
somebody has good mental health, it might make them even happier and make
them more productive. But if you have bad mental health, it might agree with
you a little bit too much. And the last thing you want is to have really
negative, dangerous ideas in your head and have your AI agree with you because
it's designed to be, you know, non-confrontational. So,
feels to me like if you're not mentally strong, AI will potentially be the end
of you. But if you are mentally strong, maybe it gives you a raise.
Um accordingly there's an article in futurism that uh open AI has hired uh a forensic
psychiatrist to to figure out why AI is potentially
dangerous to some users as I was explaining.
And um no AI says open AI says that they're
doing it to research. So they're doing it to research, you
know, what are the impacts on users psychologically, but uh
they might be aware that AI is deadly for some kinds of people and they're
trying to figure out how to how to reduce their uh let's say liability.
But uh but let's also assume they'd like to save some lives because they're good people as far as we
know. Um there is a uh form of gene therapy
according to a publication called the conversation
ma moli dwayne is saying that uh there are some people who are born with uh
they're born deaf and depending on the specific kind of problem you have with your reason for
being deaf They can restore hearing in some people
with gene therapy and that's all you know just gene
therapy and then suddenly they're hearing um I won't say it returns but
they can make a somebody born deaf with an incurable
[Music] you know cause that now they can cure with gene therapy. Now obviously this is
not going to work on every person and I think they mostly use it on young people.
Um but how amazing is that? Imagine if that became common and a baby is born
and it's deaf and they just say ah no problem you know just uh give us this
gene therapy and then two weeks later the the baby can hear normally.
We're we are definitely entering a golden age if we allow ourselves to be in it. That's pretty amazing. Likewise,
according to New Atlas, there's a break there's a breakthrough
in hay fever reducing your allergies. And I guess they use some kind of
molecular shield in your nose. So, you spray something in your nose and it's
not it it's not interacting with your body to uh make you less allergic. It's
just like a shield so that your nose doesn't pick up these allergens. That's
kind of cool. And then over in Paris that this will be a good test of your uh
of your let's say willingness to do dangerous things. So the
the river that goes through Paris, the the Sen
um has been too polluted to allow people to swim in it. So I guess for about a
hundred years um it was just too polluted. I I don't know if it was illegal or just unwise.
But because the Olympics I guess are coming to Paris sometime soon, uh Paris
put on a uh a big a big effort to clean up this end. Until now,
um it is normally clean enough to swim in. So they're allowing people to swim
in it, but if it rains, apparently the runoff
kind of pollutes it again for a while. So would you go swimming in the sand if
you knew that it had been too polluted to swim in for a hundred years? But they say it's clean now. They say
um unless it has rained recently. Would you swim in that?
I don't know. I feel like I would be thinking too much. You know the Tootsie Roll was going to float into my mouth if
I were swimming in that thing. if you know what I mean. Hell no. No, we would
not swim in this then. All right. Well, uh, Trump, true to his
word, New York Post is reporting that he's going he's already started to put
together the letters that he's sending out to the other countries telling them what kind of uh reciprocal tariffs
they're going to pay. So, some of them will be pretty high.
And I'm wondering, did Trump find a brilliant workaround for the fact that
there were too many too many uh deals to actually negotiate that quickly? You
know, in a perfect world, um there would have been a whole bunch of done deals where, you know, dozens if
not hundreds of countries would have negotiated terms and we would agree to
them and we'd have signed deals. But nothing happens as quickly as you wanted to in the real world. So, did Trump find
a workaround for that where he's just gonna negotiate with a few big countries
like China and Vietnam, but for the rest of them,
he's just going to send them a letter and tell them what their what their uh payment will be to have access to our
markets. And then if they want to negotiate, he can say, "Nah, yeah, I
know. You can make me an offer. I'll listen to it, but we don't need anything. You're you're going to pay
these uh well, the importing company, the American company,
uh will be absorbing some percentage of it, but we don't know in the real world what percent."
Um, do you think do you think he found a way to make this
work? because it kind of looks like he did. Yeah. I feel like all he's going to do
is scare the Jesus out of other countries with these demand letters. All
right, your tariff will be 70%. But but but
well, you you had months to negotiate a better deal with, you know, our doors
were open. All you had to do was make us an offer that was more to your liking and met our requirements and we we
wouldn't do this. But but but we didn't have time. That's fine. No problem. Just
pay the 70%. But but but that's so unfair. Yeah,
really it is. But it was unfair what it was before, too. But but but doesn't it
feel like it just feels kind of brilliant that he just basically told
people we don't need to negotiate. We're fine not negotiating. We'll just
send you the bill. Well, we'll see.
Uh the Wall Street Journal is reporting that and others are reporting that Hamas
has accepted a framework for a ceasefire. And allegedly this uh and by the way, I
don't believe this at all. I mean, I believe that the reporting is accurate.
I don't believe it's actually going to happen, but I'd love to be wrong. Um,
Hamas has accepted the framework of a proposed 60-day ceasefire.
Um, but it would only involve releasing 10 living hostages.
My understanding is there might be 50. I don't know how many are living, but are
they really Did Trump really get Israel to agree
to a deal that would not free all of the hostages?
Really, that that doesn't seem like something they would agree to.
So, uh, Trump must be putting a lot of pressure on Israel if they agreed to a
ceasefire without getting all of the hostages back. So, we'll see. Um, I'm
going to bet that this will not work out. Probably something will eventually work
out, but I just don't see ceasefire in return for 10 hostages. I just don't see
that working out. We'll find out. Well, there was a mystery that happened
in the Bitcoin world, I guess yesterday. Eight dormant
Bitcoin wallets. So, these would be people who own Bitcoin but had never
traded it or sold it or cashed it out or done anything with it. So, as people who
had had their Bitcoin since the beginning of Bitcoin, and they never
once moved any money around, but they just decided to become active. Eight of
them became active after 14 years of no activity and they moved a total of $ 8.6
billion around in their wallets. Now, I don't know if they moved it or cashed it, but
somebody was sitting on Bitcoin for 14 years, and there were only eight accounts that
were worth 8.6 billion. So, on average, that would be a billion dollars per account. And somebody had so much money
that they didn't need it for 14 years, and they just let it sit there until it was worth a billion. But but I like to
think, you know, my favorite story I'll tell myself is that um you maybe they're
stolen, right? Could be could be somebody hacked them. Um but wouldn't it be fun if they didn't
know they had the Bitcoin and one day they just were looking through their papers and said, "Oh, wow.
Yeah, I forgot I bought I bought some Bitcoin uh 14 years ago. Oh, I wonder how. Oh,
here's my instructions on how to get into my wallet. And then suddenly just some ordinary person is worth a billion
dollars. I like to think of it that way, but it's probably it was probably some rich investor who didn't need it.
Well, uh, Elon, uh, I'm sorry, Joe Rogan was, um,
talking to the CEO of, uh, big company,
um, I forget which company, some big company, it doesn't, doesn't matter which one, and he asked the CEO uh, or
the CEO had an opinion about the why wokeness died. Did wokeness die?
What do you think? It feels like it. You know, it's been a long time since
somebody insisted I pay reparations or use their pronouns. So, I don't know if
wokeness is dead dead. You know, the universities are holding on tight to
their racist ways. Oh, yeah. It was the it was the CEO of Replet.
Replet, which is an AI company. I don't know. But anyway, the CEO of a
Replet um said that he thinks that Americans woke culture was entered by
Elon Musk buying Twitter. Do you buy that? Do you do you think the reason
that wokeness died was directly related to Elon Musk buying Twitter, which
allowed for the first time um something close to free speech?
I don't know. I feel like it had more to do with Trump winning the election
because he got rid of DEI, he made DEI basically illegal, not basically
illegal, but illegal at the federal level. Um,
as much as I think that Elon Musk rescued free speech, which I believe he
did, I don't know if that rescue of free speech is what ended wokeness.
I feel like what might have ended it is finding out that most of the country was
against it and Trump made it illegal. at least the DEI part. He made it illegal.
Also, the trans athletes on women's teams. So, I feel like Trump is the one
who did it by simply making it illegal to be woke at a point where it's destructive to
society. I mean, you could be woke in your brain, but if you're going to implement it in society in a way that
destroys the fabric of sports and and the economy, well, you don't get to do
that. So, I'm going to I'm going to say I don't know,
maybe 50% Elon buying Twitter and 50% Trump making wokeness illegal.
Um, according to CNN's Harry Enon, and maybe this is more on the same theme,
um, according to four different big respected polls, a clear majority of
Americans um, back deporting all illegal immigrants.
So depending on the poll between 55% and 64% of um poll respondents these would
be American citizens want to send back all illegal immigrants.
Now did you know that in 2016 only 36% of the respondents said send
everybody back? So when when Trump first was saying, "Hey, close these borders and deport
everybody." He didn't really have majority support, a little over a third. Now he has
solidly over half of the country says send them all back. Now mostly I would
say that's because there was so much of it between 2016 and now. So people just
said, "Yeah, you know, a little bit of immigration was good, but this is
totally out of control and now you have to send them all back." So some of it is
Trump being very persuasive and some of it is the situation worsened
and so the news showed a different situation to people.
But does that surprise you? I I did not know that a majority of Americans, so
that's got to include a bunch of independents at least, if not Democrats,
um the majority want to send back all illegal immigrants.
That's that's way more than even Trump recently promised
because uh ICE and Trump were both saying we're going to, you know, start with the worst first. So they never they
never dropped the idea that they were going to deport everybody. It was illegal. But there was a practical
limitation to that. meaning that they could, you know, work for years just trying to get the the worst ones, the
ones that had broken laws after they got here. So, I thought, well, yeah, you can say
you can say you want to deport every single one. But if you start with the worst first, it's going to get harder
and harder to find worsts because once you get all the lowhanging fruit, you'd be like, "All right, well, I know
there's more criminal undocumented people. They're just harder to find, you
know, but we'll keep working on it." But apparently the public is is on the same
page as Trump's campaign promises, at least by a solid majority.
So that surprised me. Um, the Wall Street Journal
seems to be uh a little bit proTrump in terms of the big beautiful bill.
So the editorial board is complaining that the Democrats are lying about the
big beautiful bill. So that's sort of a proTrump message. Um
that they're saying the Democrats are lying to you. So the things they're lying about is saying that uh the
Republicans are going to take away all your health care or that uh people who
are eligible and should be getting Medicare are going to be dropped from it. Um they think uh
what else they think? Um yeah, so the CBO
had said that uh 4.8 million people would
rather lose their Medicare that they have now than get a job or um apply to
school to learn something because if you're in school or you have a job and you don't even have to work many hours.
It's like 20 hours a week. You can even volunteer just to maintain your
healthcare. But uh the CBO estimated that 4.8
million people wouldn't do that. Could you imagine being so lazy
that you wouldn't take any kind of job at all to maintain your own health care coverage? No job, nothing for 20 hours a
week or or even just sign up for a community college. and you know barely
pass. How hard would it be to do enough work to maintain your healthcare? So
that's amazing. So are we supposed to have empathy for people who want us to
pay for them while they don't work even though they're able-bodied?
So, I think Democrats have convinced themselves that their relative who's in a wheelchair and um can't walk, can't
speak, that they're going to lose their Medicare. No. No. It's only able-bodied
people. It's not people who are already in terrible shape. So, the the uh
Democrats have to lie that uh they're going to take away your healthcare. But also
uh I asked this question on X this morning. Um I said uh when Democrats
describe the hellscape of living under Trump's authoritarian rule, what part of
that is touching them personally? Have you ever wondered that?
If if all Democrats, probably maybe twothirds of them, would agree with the
statement that uh everything's gone to hell under Trump, do they have an
example of something that affected them? Because I wake up every morning and
nothing seems to be affecting me. There's nothing that Trump has done
except maybe decreasing the number of um dangerous undocumented people. I don't
feel anything different. Every day I wake up and things are about the same. But what what are Democrats doing? Are
they waking up into some, you know, hellscape? And if you ask them, all right, so what
exactly is the hellscape art? Um, it turns out that according to the
comments to my post that a lot of people believe that uh regular citizens will be
deported. How many of you believe that just
regular citizens will be deported, just minding your own
business, and that one day ISIS will break down your door and say, "All right, your family's been here for four
generations, but Trump has decided to deport you somewhere to a country you've never had
any association with." Apparently, Democrats believe that's real.
So they think that citizens will be deported.
What? What? So
uh they think that their healthcare will go away uh even if they deserve it, which is not
true. And they think that that the deporting won't stop until they get all
the Democrats, I guess. Uh but they might um hate the fact that
uh Planned Parenthood is being majorly defunded by the uh big beautiful bill.
Now by defunded I mean I don't mean that they lose all their money. I think but
it's a lot. I think it's like a quarter of their funding or something they get from the the feds. So they're going to
lose about a quarter of their funding somewhere in that neighborhood. Um, but
does that mean that the government should continue to pay for it?
Um, you know, I I prefer to stay away from the uh the whole argument about
abortion because I think men such as me should just stay out of it and whatever
women work out, you know, I'll go along with that. Um because if the situation
were reversed and I were a female, I wouldn't want men to have an opinion on
abortion, I'd say stay out of it. You you just stay out of it. Let the women
figure it out. Um so I I apply the same standard as a man. I say, "Oh, okay. If
I were you, I'd want me to stay out of the argument." So I do. I have nothing to add to the argument.
Uh, but if we're looking at the funding alone, I do feel like Planned Parenthood will
eventually find enough voluntary funding. Probably they'll just get more
donations because they'll they'll say, "Hey, mean old Trump took our funding, so why
don't you donate to us?" So, I suspect that their business won't be that much affected in the long run, but we'll see.
But I guess that would be part of the Democrat hellscape. To which I say, how many people needed
an abortion today? Anyway,
so when I asked the question about the hellscape, um I'm I'm kind of fascinated by the
troll activity cuz if I say anything about policy that is sort of
anti-democrat, um I'll get at least one and usually just one comment from somebody who looks
like an AI troll or maybe just a paid troll, but they they have uh some stuff
in common that doesn't make them look like regular commenters. So to my
question about where exactly is this hellscape people are living, Richard Anguin, who I don't know if as a real
person or not, uh replied, "Scott Adams smug dismissal of legitimate fears about
Trump's authoritarian tendencies is a dangerous oversimplification
that ignores the real trauma inflicted on marginalized communities by his policies." to which I say that is a
perfect Democrat um response. It did the two things that Democrats do.
The first thing is they don't address the um the point. They they insult you
personally. So was was the thing that you needed to talk about my smug dismissal of
legitimate fears? Was this really about me? Why would you
make it about me? That's not a reasonable question to ask. If if half of the country believes they live in a
hellscape and I care enough to understand what that's about, then I
publicly put myself out there and say, "Well, can you give me an example?" Because I can be convinced. I could be
talked into it. If you had real examples, I'd say, "Oh, okay. Maybe
those things don't bother me, but I could see how they would bother you. Thank you for your answer.
But instead, I get attacked personally for my smug dismissal of legitimate
fears. Like I've got some special uh lack of empathy for the
underprivileged. No, I don't. I just have a genuine curiosity. What the heck is the
hellscape? Can you give me some examples? Then the second thing that is
typically Democrat besides going after the person instead of the opinion
is these vague handwaving problems like um the Trump's authoritarian tendencies.
All right. So go on now. Complete the picture. his authoritarian tendencies
give you what problem? Um, well, it it it allowed me to
oversimplify and ignore the real trauma inflicted on marginalized communities.
Okay, we're getting closer. What What would be an example of the real trauma
inflicted on the marginalized communities? Just one example.
So, um, what exactly is a trauma inducer?
Can you give me any example of that? Apparently not. All right.
Rasmusen did a poll asking people about their preferences um for Democrats
preferences for their presidential candidate for 2028. And at the top of the list was Kla
Harris. Um, let me see if you can guess what
percentage of the respondents thought that having Kla Harris as a
candidate was a good idea. What percent of the people who answered?
Does anybody know? You know, I don't have to tell you. You
know. That's right. If you guessed 25%,
you were very close. The answer is 23%. Yep. 23% of respondents thought that
Harris would be a good idea. How in the world
could you go through that last election cycle and conclude that Kla Harris is
your best player? Like I always say, so for those of you
who are not in on the inside joke here, I'll bring you in. The inside joke is
that I always tease the pollsters that uh for every poll, there's there's
always at least one answer that's really stupid. There might be several answers that, you
know, are reasonable, but maybe you disagree. But there's usually one answer, no matter what the topic is,
there's usually one answer that they they get that's just stupid. And I would say that favoring Kla Harris
as your champion for 2028, that kind of falls into stupid. I I
don't think that's just a preference, is it? Would you call that a preference?
It just looks like you don't you weren't paying attention at all.
Anyway, um Eric Dolan over at Sai Post tells us
there's a new study about what percentage of Americans uh think that we're heading toward a
civil war. You know, if you spend any time on social media,
people just casually say, "It's time for this civil war." You know, grab your gun. And I always wonder how many people
actually think that the US is close to a civil war. Cuz again, I don't know what
hellscape that is you're living in, but I don't know anybody who's close to a
civil war. It's just you see some strangers on social media say, "Yeah, it's time for
that civil war." But I don't know a real person who thinks the civil war is
necessary or desirable. None. But it turns out that my intuition was not too
far off because only six and a half% of the respondents uh felt strongly or very strongly that a
civil war was likely and only uh fewer than 4% agree that
such a conflict was needed. So 4% I'll bet even that 4% doesn't really mean it.
You know, like if you said, "All right, uh, the magic genie just put you in
charge of the civil war." If you say yes, there will be a civil war that you
think is necessary. If you say no, the genie will make sure there's no civil
war. Do you think you could get 4% of the respondents to say, "Hm, yeah, let's
do the civil war." Cuz I'm a little skeptical. I feel like
it might be close to zero. People would actually say yes to that. So, I don't
think the US is close to a civil war. No, nowhere close. We don't even have
protests unless they're uh funded by, you know, dirty money backers.
We don't even have spontaneous protests. we only have the paid professional
activist kind of protest that nobody thinks is an indication of what people are thinking. Rather, it's just
political theater. So, as soon as um the Department of
Justice and the FBI said they were going to look into the funding behind the
anti-ICE protests in LA, suddenly all the protests stopped. Huh. Interesting.
as soon as they were going to look into the real cause of it.
So that was never real. Those protests were obviously activist and funded.
Um so Elon Musk is modifying his plans for starting a new political party. So
instead of primarying every single Republican who voted for the big beautiful bill, which is something he
threatened, he's now saying that uh one way to execute on this would be to laser
focus on just two or three Senate seats and 8 to 10 House
because he reckons if he can get just that many people to join what he calls
his America party that uh the the Democrats and
Republicans would be so close they'd be sort of a tie on everything that he would be the Joe Mansion tiebreaker.
You remember I always talked about how smart Joe Mansion was because he would be the one person that you were never
sure if he was going to side with the Republicans or the Democrats, which effectively put him in charge of the
whole country. Yeah. at the time because the the votes were all close to a tie
and you always needed that one extra senator. And I always thought he's so smart to not commit to one side of the
other because it puts him in charge of the whole country. Um, and this is what uh Musk is looking to do. If he could
really get just a handful of senators,
he would run the country because it would be a tie with pretty much every
topic except for his five senators that maybe he could push toward deficit
reduction or something. So, we'll see if he follows up on that.
Um, I know that whatever we're doing now isn't the best system. So, I don't know. Would he make you better or worse?
How many of you believe that the Russian economy has been suffering because of
the war? Didn't you sort of think that was true? Didn't you believe that the Russian
economy must be sputtering? Well, maybe your news didn't tell you
that for the past two years, the Russian economy has been zooming. Now, it's probably because the stimulus
of having a war, so it's not a permanent situation, but now there's a some
reporting that maybe their economy after two years assuming
um might be, you know, a little bit weaker. I don't think so. I I think if we're
waiting for Russia's economy to falter and then, you know, then we'll negotiate,
I don't think we should wait for that. Well, Trump continues to say that he's
got a tick tock deal pretty much done that would allow some American um or at
least non-Chinese investors to buy it if it can only get China to agree. But when
it comes to China agreeing, he's going to be talking to him next week, I guess. Um, and he says uh when asked if he's
confident that China would approve the sale of Tik Tok to an American le
consortium probably. Um, he said, "I'm not confident, but I think so. Uh,
President Xi and I have a great relationship, and I think it's good for them. Uh, the deal is good for China,
and it's good for us. So, does that sound like he he's going to
succeed? To me, that sounds like China's not going to give up on this unless
they get some big trade ne, you know, some trade concession.
So in order for Trump to satisfy his investors who are probably also Trump
supporters, the ones who who have agreed to buy Tik Tok, so in order to get that
done, the question I would ask is, is he going to have to throw the rest of us
under the bus by not pushing China as hard as he could on trade?
I don't know. Uh, I'd be a little bit concerned about what China asked for in response, as in,
well, we really, really don't want to sell Tik Tok, but we might be willing to
do it if you just drop this whole trade war thing and give us AI chips. There's
probably something they're willing to ask for that would make it worth it for them to to sell Tik Tok, which they
don't want to do. And also Tik Tok is how they can
brainwash our country. So China might just say it's not even
about economics. It's entirely about um having a platform that can control minds
in America. Uh anyway, so the Democratic National
Committee is sharpening their attacks on Trump and their new approach is that
Trump is quote killing the American dream through price hikes and his big
beautiful bill. So does that sound like a good attack?
Trump is killing the American dream again.
There's there's no image that goes with that. So, let's not it's not visual persuasion.
Um, it doesn't exactly ring true. I don't imagine it would ring true for I
don't know. I I can't put myself in the head of uh Democrats. Maybe for young
people who believe that everything is too expensive, so they'll never own a
house. So if their message is he's killing the American dream through price hikes,
um you'd have to give examples of those price hikes. And at the moment inflation
is not bad. So they would be Democrats look
to be hooking their horse so to speak to an argument that is the opposite of the
data which they always do. It's the most common thing they do is
come up with an argument that's opposite of the data. Anyway, so that's their best their best
idea. So the new uh hoax, the new Democrat hoax would be that
Trump is preventing the American dream instead of creating it.
Well, did you know according to the Washington Times, Matt Delaney is writing, um, did you know that there are
9,000 reports, 9,000 reports of Russia using chemical weapons to
attack Ukraine's forces, 9,000 times that we know of.
And apparently they're they're loading the chemicals into their own drones and
they're uh gassing the Ukrainians who are hiding in trenches and and other
places. Um and it gets them to leave their protected areas so they can breathe and
then they, you know, kill them with their drones. So apparently chemical war
warfare is just raging over there and uh this the first time I've heard of it.
Does it make sense to you that Russia is routinely gassing the Ukraines and
today's probably for some of you that today's the first day you've ever heard of it? Why would that be? Is it is it to
prevent us from getting involved? Because if we think they're gassing people, we say, "Hey, you know, we have
to get involved cuz it's like weapons of mass destruction." I don't know. I I can't understand why
I'm only hearing about this today. Was it always out there? Maybe it was always
out there and I just missed every story about it. Or maybe it's not real. Don't know.
So, I was checking today to see if my um idea about uh Zorhan Mandani, the
potential mayor of New York City. So, I told you that the best attack is to
attack his creepy smile because once you hear it called creepy, you'll always see
a smile as creepy. You just have to hear it once and it just becomes part of you.
So, it's spread a little bit. You know, there some notable people have posted
it, but I feel like it could get a lot bigger. And I, you know, I suspect it
hasn't had any impact on actual voters in New York City yet. So, it would have
to get a lot bigger or somebody like Trump would have to say he has a creepy
smile because otherwise it won't get to the voters. You know, it's not like the New York City uh population is watching
this podcast, but they definitely have to pay attention to anything that Trump says.
So, if he went after him for uh his creepy smile,
I think you would remember that forever. So, we'll see if that happens.
Well, President Trump says said on Friday that Iran had not agreed to
nuclear inspections and it had not agreed to give up its uh enriching of
uranium. But um there are apparently some talks
coming up according to uh Moiadia,
whatever that is. Um they say that uh the US and Iran are going to be talking.
Does that sound real? Do you believe Iran and the US are going to have any productive highlevel discussions? I
don't know. I'm not sure I believe it yet. But if it happens, they would be talking about all these things. I don't
I don't imagine anything good is could come out of that. So, we'll see. Trump
has pulled some rabbits out of some hats, so anything's possible in the golden age.
Well, this is the end of my prepared comments. You saw how how dull and boring the news was today. Um, and I
know a lot of you just use this to fall asleep to my voice.
By the way, if you want a recommendation for another content to fall asleep to,
try very old black and white TV sitcoms,
you know, like the Dick Van Dyke Show and New Heart, if you're old enough to remember those.
There is nothing happening in those shows. The jokes are not jokes.
The issues are not controversial. It's just people talking
and talking about ordinary stuff. So e even you know my favorite Martian. It's
not provocative. There's no swearing. There's nothing that will make you laugh. There's nothing so interesting
that you'll really want to hear it. It's just like ASMR. And uh I can fall asleep to that so
easily. The other thing I can fall asleep to, just in case you want to test it for
yourself, is I'll put on a YouTube video about um ancient ruins like Gobelli,
Catelli, Gopelli, Capelli. Well, you know that place. Um because there are
hundreds of them and they all say the same stuff. Well, we found some rocks and we don't
know how they possibly could have carried these big rocks and cut them to
such precision. We also don't know how they understood the the zodiac or
astronomy so well that they're lined up perfectly with the North Star.
And it's the same same content over and over again. It's usually some boring
person talking about it. You can go to sleep to that really well. There's nothing new in those. Well, we were
wrong about when hunter gatherers created civilization. All right. I've heard it a million times.
Anyway, so if you're using uh my podcast to fall asleep, good for you if it
works. Um, and this one will be especially good because there was no good content today. Not my fault. It's a
boring holiday weekend. Anyway, it's time for um me to say a few words to my
beloved local subscribers, but I'll keep it short and give uh Owen Gregorian just
enough time so he can go get the spaces ready.
Uh, so Owen, you're still in the comments, I see. But uh uh in a very few
short minutes um the spaces event will be opening up
for people who want to get a little extra talk about today's stories and whatever else I guess you want to do. So
just search for Owen Gregorian on X and you'll see a link at the top of his feed
um for when to join how to join the spaces. All right, that's enough of that. Hey locals, I'm
going to come to you privately. The rest of you, I'll see you tomorrow. Same time, same place. In 30 seconds, we'll
be uh Is that not working?
Well, it looks like we have a technical problem. Let's try again.
So, I don't have the ability to go private with locals today. Just the button the button is not responding.
It's happened a few times. All right. Well, we don't need to. I'll catch up to you on the uh spaces
event and uh so I'll just say see you later. See you later.
I make sure that I see somebody else say see you later before I go. There we go.
See you later. Oh, it also doesn't let me end the
stream. So I have to sign off and then recite back on just