Come on in. Grab a seat. There's always an available seat up front.
And it is wonderful to see you again. Let me make sure I can see all your
comments here. And then we've got some fun for you.
[Music]
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization. It's
called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to take a chance on taking this experience up to levels that no one
can understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you need for that
is a copper mug or a glass of tankered shell sty canteen jugger flask vessel of
any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now
for the unparalleled pleasure dopamine of the day. The thing that makes everything better. It's called the
simultaneous sip and it happens now.
Oh yeah, that was really good. That was good. Oh boy.
Well, I wonder if there's any scientific study about the benefits of magic
mushrooms. Oh, yeah. Here's one. Uh, according to uh if science, psilocybin
shows potential in in slowing human cell aging.
So, not only will the magic mushrooms
cure your depression, your anxiety, fix all of your
fix all of your problems, but it might make you live longer. Is there anything
mushrooms can't do? No. No, there's not. Apparently, they can do everything.
Well, this might seem like a nerdy little news thing, but it might be a big deal. PJ media is reporting
that uh four independent impleers have decided to join forces and some kind of
an association of just the four of them. There'll be the National Association.
Well, they might add some people, who knows? There'll be the National Association of Independent Pollsters.
Now, you might say to me, why is that interesting? that four pollsters and of
the many many pollsters have decided to create their own little organization.
Why would they do that? Well, here here are the pollsters. Uh big data poll
insider advantage uh Trafalar Group and Rasmusen.
Now, if you're a real nerd and you really watch your politics, you know
where this is heading. But for the rest of you, let me tell you what this means.
Um, these four are the ones who are calling out the other pollsters for
being frauds. Uh, Rasmusen, of course, has been doing
it for a long time, but uh, these are all top 10 pollsters who tend to be
accurate and not um, gaming the system. So I believe their claim will be that
these are four you can depend on and uh all the rest are likely to be gaming the
system especially for the political stuff. So I feel like this is a big move
because if if one pollster says oh those other ones seem fraudulent
how much are you going to pay attention to it? But if there's an organization of pollsters, they have organized
specifically because of the ones who are not frauds and they're calling out the rest of them
in the industry for being frauds. That's that's got a little bit of weight behind it. So that that could get
interesting next time there's a political poll.
Well, Grock 4 maybe is released or maybe they're just
still talking about it. I cannot tell by looking at my own Grock that I pay for
what I have and what I don't. I I think I have four, but there's a there's a
heavy four. There's one that's $300 a month. I don't have that one.
So, um, Elon Musk says, "We're in the beginning of an immense intelligence big
bang right now, and we're at the most interesting time to be alive any time in
history." Now, you want to know how I know we're living in a simulation,
right? Just imagine this. Imagine the
depends where you want to go. they'll say 300,000 years of human development.
What are the odds that you happen to be here at exactly the most interesting
time? What are the odds of that? That that's
really small, right? Um, so it seems to me that whenever
something this unusual happens in my lifetime, I say to myself,
what are the odds that I was born in this time zone? You not time zone, but you know, time
period. I feel like I feel like maybe, you know, this is proof for his
simulation. Well, Grock is also going to be put into Teslas very soon. maybe next week. And
Elon has gone so far as to say that he'd be shocked if Grock hasn't discovered
new physics by next year. Apparently, Grock 4 is now the leading
AI. It benchmarks better than all the other AIs for now. And uh
Elon says that with respect to academic questions, Grock 4 is better than uh PhD
level in every subject and it may be discovering new things
that no AI has discovered before. Um
and it might discover new physics. I mean just think about that.
So, according to Elon, the current version, the one they're releasing, I guess the expensive version,
um, should be able to figure out things that do not exist already on the
internet. Now that would be a big deal because the large language models
largely they look at what has gone before you know the the body of
knowledge that humans already have and then it learns from what humans already know but it doesn't figure out new
stuff. The large language models don't do that. If Grock can do that and I
think it's still an open question. If Grock can figure out new truths
that do not exist already in human knowledge, that would be really scary and exciting
and a really big deal. So, the odds of Grock or AI.
Um, fixing cancer seems pretty good, but um, mushrooms will do that, too. I forgot to
tell you that the uh mushrooms that u might be operating on your telomers and
and allowing you to live longer. They're going to study mushrooms
uh the magic mushrooms to see if they also are a treatment for cancer.
So, what do you think will work first? Do you think the mushrooms or grock will
cure cancer first? I don't know. Could be a dead heat.
Meanwhile, um Apple's stock is apparently down this
year for the year even as the other big tech firms are doing great. Um, and of
course people are saying that the problem is that if uh Apple doesn't figure out AI and there's no evidence
that they're even close that uh they will be left behind and that you can't
be the big, you know, leading tech company if you don't even really have an AI platform. So maybe some say that
Apple will try to buy diverse or perplexity. I don't know about that because it would
be about $30 billion. But I'm going to reup my prediction.
I feel like the risk to the uh the smartphone companies is that somebody
with an AI platform is going to make a phone that uh doesn't use apps,
at least not directly. The biggest problem with the iPhone, the thing I hate is that I have to find an app first
and then I do my thing. And sometimes you got to update the app and sometimes
you got to sign into the app and oh my god, imagine if you would a phone with
AI as its operating system, if you will, but not really having an operating system. And it's just a blank phone.
And if uh if you left your phone on the kitchen table and I picked it up by
accident, it would look at my face and it would turn into my phone, but only as long as
I'm using it. As soon as I put it down again, it would become generic and then
the owner could pick it up and it would be their phone. So that's the first thing. It could identify you with more
certainty than a nonI entity could. The other thing I want to say is I want
to start working before I pick an app. So for example, if I want to text
somebody I know, I want a blank screen every time, nothing but a blank screen,
and then just start typing a message. And then the AI says, "Oh, he's making a
short message um on this topic where he was just talking to Bob.
So, so then it will indicate as I work that it plans to open up a text send a
text message to Bob. Now, if that's not what I intended or if there maybe is
more than one thing that I might be, you know, potentially hinting I want, it would give me a couple of choices, but I
would do the selecting of the app at the end or not at all because AI would know.
Suppose I wanted to work on a spreadsheet. So I've got some existing spreadsheets
that you know I update now and then. If the only thing I did is start writing
the new data for the new spreadsheet, the new spreadsheet should just appear
and then it ask me if I wanted that data to be on this column in this place.
So you see how awesome that would be. But the problem is that Apple has commercialized this whole app
um model which has been you know great for revenue I guess but I don't want
apps. I don't want any apps. I want just stuff to work and I want to just start working
as soon as I open the phone. Now you might say to yourself that that would be a terrible idea but it depends on
implementation. Well, in other news,
um DJI, that's a big uh drone maker in China, uh they have made a drone that
can lift um about 176 pounds and
transport it for 16 miles. That's the weight of a human
that can carry for 16 miles. What?
And it's not that big. The drone itself looks like I don't know, maybe a six
foot wingspan or something like that. But, uh, if you can carry 176 pounds for
16 miles, you've got yourself a pretty good assassination machine right there.
Because um you we know now that the Russians have the ability to have a drone that
just loiters and just hangs around and looks for its targets without it's
unjammable. So imagine it being unjammable, can travel 16 miles, can find the target
on its own after you've specified some stuff, I guess, and then it could drop
176 pounds of explosives in that area.
So that would be pretty bad.
But on the positive side, maybe they'll use it for rescuing people in remote
locations. Or maybe it will be delivering your lunch. I don't know.
I I tell this story all the time, but I haven't told it in a while, so it's worth re-uping. years ago um when drones
were a little bit newer and less powerful, I attended a uh startup pitch
event at Berkeley, you know, Berkeley the college and I was one of the uh
judges of the pitches and one of the uh companies pitching had
developed a new kind of blade for for Jones that they claimed would vastly
improve its cargo carrying no ability from what it was at the time, which
wasn't very much. And uh I remember asking the uh the startup crew, now
remember this is Berkeley, so it's the most lefty leaning group of people
you've ever seen in your life. And I said, "Wow, with this new ability to carry more cargo, I would think the
military would be very interested in your product." Well, you should have seen their faces
when this left-leaning group of entrepreneurs in Berkeley just realized
that they had designed death weapons from above, but they weren't aware of
what they had done. Um,
Lithuania got attacked by a Russian suicide drone. I'm seeing somebody report that in the
comments, but I wouldn't take that as a fact yet. That sounds unusual.
All right. Um, apparently, uh, T-Mobile
had a, uh, thriving DEI program or set of programs, but they're going to get
rid of all their DEI according to Newsmax because they need FCC approval
for some mergers and deals they want to do. So, once again, it it wasn't enough
that DEI is illegal. That wasn't enough to make them stop doing it. It's just
until they needed a approval from the government, they were just going to keep
doing the illegal thing, I guess. But now they they've agreed to wipe it clean
and get rid of all that DEI illegal stuff so that they can get their deals done. So, T-Mobile,
you're a little bit slow, but maybe you got to the right place.
And uh I was listening to uh Alex Jones.
He had a guest on Kyle Sarapin. He's a FBI whistleblower who's been around for
a while on the uh podcasting and interview circuit. So um he he's not a
brand new FBI whistleblower. He's a whistleblower from the not too distant
past. and he believes that the the
announcement that Comey and uh Brennan will be investigated for criminal
activity is a distraction from the Epstein case. Do you believe that? Do
you believe that it's not a coincidence that you heard about Brennan and Comey
right at the time that uh the government wants to distract you from the Epstein
situation? I don't know maybe I always think u the
government has a million things that they could use as a distraction. So in a sense
um maybe I mean it works as a distraction but that doesn't mean that
they planned it that way or did they? It's possible. Um,
and then, uh, Kyle was pointing out, Kyle Sarafan on Alex Jones show. He was
pointing out that uh Fox News was reporting that uh Comey Comey and
Brennan would be um looked at for perjury for things that they said to I
guess under oath to Congress. That turned out not to be true except that
there's a statute of limitations says Kyle Sarapin of 5 years.
So it wouldn't really make sense to investigate them for something they couldn't be charged for anyway.
So maybe there's more to it. We don't know. But
um then I saw separately um I saw a CIA whistleblower. I love the
whistleblowers. John Kiryaku. You've probably seen him on social media. He's
there quite a bit. And uh he he had a lot of uh contact with John Brennan
because they were in the CIA at the same time. And he describes John Brennan as a
ruthless quote very bad guy. He said, quote, "John was just torture, torture,
torture. We got to torture these guys." Talking about, you know, terrorists and stuff. We got to do this. We got to do
that. We need to start killing more people. We need to get out there and start shooting. John Brennan is a very
bad guy from day one. He was a bad guy. Well,
and I guess uh Brennan was notorious for expanding drone strikes um and brutal
interrogation tactics. Hm. Well, John Brennan appeared on MSNBC,
the network that we think is most associated with being a tool of the CIA.
And uh I've seen him I've seen John Brennan in a lot of interviews, but I've
never seen him look this worried. He acted like he was scared to death
like like they have him. And he uh lashed out in exactly the way you'd
expect. He uh compared the US to Nazi Germany,
you know, under Trump. And he said, "If the president of the United States is willing to weaponize intelligence and
justice, we really are in deep, deep trouble." Now, do you recognize that approach?
Have we ever mentioned that the Democrats always project?
Literally the reason that he's being he's in the the public eye is because um
he's being accused of the very thing he says that Trump is doing, which is weaponizing the CIA and the FBI and
Department of Justice. So,
um, he might have a point that weaponizing those things would be a bad
idea, but it doesn't mean that's what's happening now. It seems to me that they're pretty
credible accusations that would suggest he was behind an insurrection
and and that Obama knew about it, was part of it, and that uh they were trying
to overthrow or change the government of the United States without using the legal process.
Now, do you think he's guilty? Well, I'm no expert, but I can tell you
I thought he was guilty from the first time I saw him and he and Clapper doing
their interviews. They just looked guilty as hell. I've never seen two
people who acted more guilty from the start than those two guys. But, you
know, I'm not magic. They can't read minds. I just know that my impression of
them from the start was, "Whoa, not only are you lying," it seemed to me. But it
looks like you're the the masterminds behold behind the whole thing.
And apparently they they're being accused of being the masterminds behold behind the whole thing.
Why did it take us years to get to this point? Well, apparently
the the way our government works and the justice system is that
um it takes five years before somebody admits that something was wrong and
action is taken and by then you're just tired of the story.
and it just doesn't have the impact it would if they had started from the the beginning.
So that's happening. Um
so we'll I guess we'll find out if uh if our system is completely rigged
because doesn't it seem to you that no matter what kind of evidence they have against Brennan
that he's not going to go to jail? Don't you have that feeling that it
really wouldn't make any difference how good the case was, how illegal it was?
The statute of limitation hasn't run out yet for some stuff, I suppose. But do
any of you believe that the justice system would lock him up?
It it seems unbelievably you do you believe he might get locked
up and Comey, what do you what do you think? I think no. I I believe that at
that level they're just always protected and that you know somebody's get
blackmailed or bribed or something. Um
yeah, to me it seems impossible that Brennan will go to jail.
no matter what he did and no matter what the evidence is. I just don't think we live in a country that can bring that
kind of justice to this kind of situation. We'll see. That's that's my prediction.
My prediction is that you might see evidence that looks really really damning followed by h several years are
going by and he spent some money on lawyers but he's still free. We'll find
out. Well, Joe Biden's personal doctor from
when he was in office um agreed to to go
talk to the uh the committee, Comr's committee, and uh but he didn't answer
questions. Instead, he took the fifth. Why would the personal doctor have to
take the fifth? because it wasn't like he was being asked, you know, HIPPA questions that
were private, you know, private medical things. Um, it
looked like he was quite aware that if he answered honestly, there
would be some some liability there for somebody, either his boss, you know,
either Biden or him or the family. So,
let's add the let's add the uh Biden's doctor to the list of things that are
probably exactly what they look like. It's probably exactly what you think
that he was in on it. He knew that Biden was degraded. He decided for whatever
reason that he wasn't going to make a deal big deal of it and he just went with it.
But how much of that is because people like John Brennan told the public that
Trump was Hitler and so that the only thing that mattered was that Trump
didn't get back in office. Probably everybody's was in infected by
the same problem which may have started from Brennan.
Um, well, speaking of justice, do you remember Douglas Mackey?
So, he was the the fellow who went by the online name Ricky Vaughn
and he was convicted um in 2023
because he said on a meme that said that the voting was for Democrats, the voting was the day after the election.
Now, it was a joke and it was a meme, but he was convicted.
Convicted for breaking a law which would be trying to interfere with an election.
It was a meme, a joke. But here's the good news. The uh second
circuit court of appeals just threw out his conviction. Just threw it out. And
the reason they gave for throwing out the conviction, there was no evidence
that he did it for any reason other than it was funny. There was no evidence
that it was a crime because you would have to intend it. You
would have to intend that it misleads people. And there was no evidence apparently
during the trial that he got convicted for. There was no evidence that he ever
intended it as anything but a meme or a joke. So he's a free man. Good for him.
Yeah. And it reminds us of just how dangerous it was to just be a Trump supporter during that period
because people were just being targeted for destruction. Wouldn't you say? How
many of you think that my cancellation is because of what I said versus I was
just, you know, targeted as being a Trump supporter and they used whatever whatever they could use. Well, I don't
know. But I will tell you that zero Republicans canled me.
None. Zero. Zero black Republicans. Zero. Not a not
a single Republican said, "I won't talk to you or I won't book you on a podcast or I won't buy your stuff." None. Do Do
you think that Republicans somehow are such bad people that they can't tell what horrible things I thought or said?
No. Actually, they looked at what I actually thought and said and didn't see a problem because nobody disagreed with
what I said. Nobody left or right. They just use it as an excuse to cancel me.
So Douglas Mackey and a lot of us who got all kinds of you know public attacks
sometimes physically sometimes people got you know um what do you call it? Uh
SL what do you call swat swat swatted?
Um, if you look at the abuse that Republicans were Trump haters or Trump
supporters took during the last 10 years,
we we had careers destroyed, reputations destroyed, the January 6 people put in
jail. Um, if you wore a MAGA hat outside, you got beaten up.
And the January 6 thing was the ultimate that they just, you know, massively
started jailing the most ardent supporters of the president without ever
asking them why they were there to protest in the first place. Was it because they knew that Trump lost and
they wanted him to be president anyway? No. Probably not one person had that
thought. Did we ever see in the news what they were thinking? Which would be
easy to determine. You could just bring a few of them into a room and say, "What were you thinking?" And they would say,
"Well, it looked to us like the election was irregular and we wanted uh and not
to be certified until somebody in charge looked at it and determined that it was
a good election." Nobody's ever reported that.
They've never reported the truth about that story.
And then of course there was the whole white supremacy thing and DEI so that
people like me could be targeted for being what? Just white and being alive.
So um I'm uh and and now the ICE officers are being attacked, you know, violently.
So, it's really easy. I feel like I fell into a a trap that because these things
happen you know one at a time and sometimes it doesn't affect me personally and you know then few weeks
go by and there's a different situation and you don't like any of them but you
don't realize that collectively they create uh a story
that I don't know how historians are going to deal with it in the future because the truth is that half of the
country got weaponized against the other half. And it was a dark dark time. And we're
not necessarily out of it because, you know, we're having this little golden
era because Trump's in office. I don't know what happens when he leaves. I
don't know what happens unless there's another strong Republican there. Do we
just go back to this reign of terror where just waking up and being a
Republican makes it dangerous to be an American? Is that what's going to happen?
I don't know. Um but apparently uh I saw Joshua Steinman
made an observation that the uh deportations
may have made the traffic in LA really manageable. Now,
um I guess it's just a fact that there are mass deportion deportations in
effect in LA. And also the traffic is the lightest it's been in anybody's
recent memory. Are those related or is it just because this is the peak
vacation period of the year? Is it just maybe people are on vacation?
I don't know. Might be a little of both. Um
I saw a there was a viral clip from Sean Ryan's podcast. He was talking to
journalist Nick Bryant who believes that uh
the reason the Epstein case is being covered up is because it would destroy
the entire operational system of the government if they revealed it because
the operational system of the government is that it's run by blackmail.
Did how many of you buy into that narrative that the reason that we can't
know about the Epstein truth is that we would learn that the entire government is a blackmail operation and maybe
always has been and maybe all of them are. Yeah, if you remember the stories from
uh Jed Garoover and correct me if I'm wrong, I'm no historian, but don't we know for sure
that Jed Garoover was controlling the government with blackmail?
We know that as a fact, right? What exactly changed since Jar Hoover's
time? Anything? Did any did any laws make that go away? Is there a new system
in place to prevent people from getting blackmailed? I don't believe so. So, if
it worked for Jed Garoover, why would you ever imagine that people stop doing
it? It's probably the most effective thing that anything that happens in our government.
But I'm not willing to say that's the only reason that you're not seeing the
uh the Epstein stuff. Uh I believe that one of the things that Trump said, which
rings true, is there might be a lot of names associated with Epstein, and Trump
would be one of those names that uh are not implicated to any crimes.
But as soon as you made that public, then every single person he talked to
who returned a phone call would look like a you know horrible sex criminal.
So you would destroy maybe I don't know maybe a hundred people's lives would be
completely destroyed who didn't deserve it because they would have no criminal
activities in their on their resume. But they had some contact with EP
Epstein maybe before they knew what he was up to. So would that be a good enough reason to uh to not release the
files? I hate to say it, but it would be
because that would very much be a case of well, you don't you don't throw away
a 100 people's lives and their families and everything else. You don't throw away a hundred people's lives because
the public has a right to see some files. I wouldn't go that far. Suppose
suppose that the Trump administration is uh very serious about protecting the
country and protecting the Republican, you know, view of what how things should
be. And they realize that if they release the Epstein files, it could
destroy the entire government, maybe bring down every government, you know,
not just the current one, but maybe all the ones in the past. Um, if we found
out what was really going on, what would be the right play for Trump?
Now, this is just speculation, hypothetical, but suppose
that revealing the full story about Epstein would crash the United States as
a as a government. Like, we would just lose everything. Is that possible? It's
totally possible. It's totally possible that if we found out we were a blackmail
operation, um, and always were,
it's totally possible it would crash the whole country. What about if if Trump
was trying to protect some other country, let's say France or the UK or uh Israel
or some other ally? Would it be a good enough reason to not tell the the
citizens of the US what the truth is if it would destroy an ally? I mean, just
just absolutely devastate another country. Would that be a good enough reason to
keep it a secret? Here's my take.
If you trust Trump, you have to also trust him to lie to you
when it's in your best interest. I know it's uncomfortable,
but how many of you know that there's something called the CIA? Have you heard of it? If you know that
there's a CIA and you have not been railing to completely eliminate them
from our system, then you've already bought into the idea that your government can lie to you.
So, don't act like you're all you're all above it. We're not above it. I I wake
up knowing that my country has a CIA and that their job is to not tell the truth.
I mean, it's built into the job and I don't expect them to tell me the truth,
but I do I do expect them to keep me safe.
So, you know, they're not going to be perfect and there'll be some corruption that gets into every system. But if you
trust Trump to handle the country's interests first,
um then you should also trust him to know when to lie to you and that when
that's in your best interest or the best interest of the country as a whole. So
that's where I'm at. Uh to me it's obvious that um Bino and Bondi and Cash
Patel and Trump are all lying. I I just accept that as a fact because
they could not wink at us any harder, could they? Wink wink. We didn't find
anything. Wink wink wink. To me, to me, they're doing the best
they can, which is letting you know without letting you know that they're
lying to you. And you would have to trust that all four of those people, because we presume
they all have some version of the truth. I don't think they're sup I don't think they're in the dark. I think they know
the truth. And would you trust that all four of them with nobody
defecting cuz that's important. None of them turned whistleblower. None of them
resigned. None of them said, "Well, I disagree with this decision." They all
got right on the same page, which suggests
that they probably think that the country is better off if they just don't let us know the full truth. Now it could
also be that there is no full truth to find because all the records have been
scrubbed long ago. So there was nothing to find. So it could be that they simply have their own suspicions about you know
the data being deleted and the files disappearing and stuff. They may have their own suspicions
but it's also possible they don't have any proof of any crimes that we don't
know about. So, if they didn't have any proof, because it'd all been removed from the
files, what are they going to do? What what would you do?
Because it's not your job to spread rumors or hunches. You would unfortunately do what they
did. You'd say, "Well, I looked at all the files and I didn't see anything
to show you." Anyway, so um my current take is that
I'm going to trust that the four of them are more patriots than weasels
because I don't think any of them lack bravery. Would you agree with me on
that? Would you would you say that the four of them, Trump, Bondi, Patel, and
Bino, they don't lack bravery. So they're not afraid.
They're probably protecting us. Now, is that the most generous take you could
ever imagine? Probably. But have have those four people earned earned a little
extra trust? And the answer is yes. Yes, I have. Now,
does that mean I'm right? I don't know. But you know, you have to take a you
have to take a position because you have to live in this world and you're going to have to accept some interpretation as
more likely than the other. The I I feel like the most likely interpretation
is that they know it would be bad for the country to be fully disclosing what
they know. Um it doesn't mean that they're bad people. could be it could mean the
opposite that they're protecting us, but I don't know.
Maybe someday we'll find that out. Um, as Alex Jones says and others have said,
maybe the other the other possibility is that Trump found it really useful to
have all that blackmail for himself. So, let's say you wanted to do a deal
with some other country that's an ally. Wouldn't it be useful if that ally was
fully knowledgeable that you knew everything in the Epstein file and if you wanted to, you could
release it. You you could leak it or you could announce it. Wouldn't that make you very flexible when dealing with the
United States? Yes, it would. So, one possibility is that once uh
Trump found out what the actual blackmail was all about,
and we have no evidence that he did this, by the way. I'm just This is more of a what if. Um
wouldn't it make sense for him to use it instead of ruining the asset? Because
imagine how valuable that asset would be. What if I what if it felt like the
difference between getting the Abraham Accords done and not I'm I'm not saying,
you know, Israel's the target or anything like that. I'm just saying there are things that are way bigger way
bigger than what Epstein knew or videoed or or blackmailed about. What if
um keeping that blackmail alive is what allows Trump to get a peace deal between
Ukraine and and Russia, which I don't think is going to happen anytime soon. But what if it did?
Wouldn't you be better off if he didn't tell you and just used that leverage and
got got a peace deal for the world that kept us out of World War II and a nuclear holocaust?
I don't know. I I wouldn't feel bad about it. So, we'll probably never know what the truth is, but let's see.
Um, so the uh apparently there are several
uh healthc care organizations. I saw this on a post by the vigilant fox who's
a real good follow on X. If you're not following the Vigilant Fox, you might be
missing a lot of stories, but um so RFK Jr. had uh said that the people um kids
and pregnant women should not be getting the COVID vaccination. Now, you probably said to yourself,
well, I'm pretty sure the science strongly indicates that it doesn't make
sense for pregnant women and children, young children, to get the shot.
But you might be wrong. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, the
American College of Physicians, the American Public Health Asso Association, and the Infectious Diseases Society of
America, because they all got together and they are filing a federal lawsuit
against Kennedy um for banning the COVID vaccine
from kids and pregnant women. Now, do you think that they have the data to
back up that lawsuit? Because the reason for banning it was
the data. Is there two sets of data? One that says it's a great idea and one that says it's
not. How in the world is this even a decision?
Is there really just two completely different worlds of data? And one says
that, "Oh yeah, give these to those pregnant women for sure." And the other says, "Whatever you do, don't give it to
pregnant women." What? How is it even possible? Well, the thing that you would
have to wonder about is are these four associations heavily funded by big
pharma? H I wonder. And is it really just big pharma trying to increase their
revenue and they're doing it indirectly through these, you know, organizations
that look, they look to us like they're legit, right? If I told you that the
American Academy of Pediatrics decided that it was something was safe
for children, wouldn't you automatically think, well, doesn't they don't sound like criminals
to me. It's the American Academy of Pediatrics. So, if I were a big pharma, I would use
my clout with big organizations that I fund or I fund maybe speaking fees for
people in the organizations, that sort of thing. And I would use them to go after RFK Jr.
um so that it didn't look like it was me.
I don't know if that's what's happening, but that's how I would see the world.
Um, Christy Gnome, head of homeland security, uh, said that
after the Maui fires and, uh, while Biden was in charge of FEMA,
I don't know if I believe this, but one in six survivors of the Maui fires had
to trade sexual favors for basic supplies to survive.
Do you believe that one in six? Now I assume that we're not counting men
in that. So if you eliminate men, you know, there
might have been some gay men or whatever who were offering sex for food. But it
feels like it'd be more like one in three. If one in six survivors, but
let's say half of them are women, half of them are men, wouldn't that suggest
since mostly the women would be offering the uh sex for supplies?
I don't know. I'm not buying it. One and three. [Music] Does that sound right to you?
You know, it's it's a horrible world, but one in three and we're just hearing
about it. I don't know. Oh, the article says one
in six women. I'm seeing in the comments. Um, what I see is one in six survivors.
So, that's the quote I got from the news. One in six survivors.
So, I don't know. I'm going to say I don't believe that one.
It if it happened to even one person, it's horrible. So, you know, let me let
me make sure that I'm not minimizing the potential of how bad that was, but
seems a little exaggerated. Um, Marjorie Taylor Green is wondering
about Galain Maxwell's Little Black Book that has over 2,000 names in it, we believe, and that would include the rich
and the powerful. And I guess that her little black book was sealed by the
court as part of her legal defense there. But this would be a perfect
example of um if there are 2,000 names in her book
and she was known to be a, you know, big networker. Uh how many of the 2,000 names committed
any kind of a crime? How would you like to be somebody that she met at a party and you traded phone
numbers and you didn't know anything about any bad behavior and next thing you know you're being outed in the news
for being in her little black book? That would be pretty bad. So I guess I
would disagree with Margerie Taylor Green that the uh Galain Maxwell's
Little Black Book should be made public. Because people would just draw
conclusions and all it would be would be a name and a phone number or an email
address and we would go nuts saying, "Well, look who's in that book. Look
what people did. We're just seeing the flight information to the island."
I assume that there were people who went to the island and committed no crimes
whatsoever. I assume so. But don't we treat it like they all did?
Like everybody who was on his, you know, flight thing, anybody who was ever on his plane, anybody who ever whispered in
his ear at a party like Trump did, don't we use that to say, well, you know,
there you go, they must have been involved in that bad behavior. So, yeah, that'd be a little uh dicey to
release those names. Um, here is something interesting. Um,
so, uh, Hakeim Jeff, Democrat, uh, he would be the minority
leader, I guess. Um, he says he trusts Democrats to run the
next election legally and appropriately in the Democrat managed states. But he
believes that the Republican managed states, the states where the Republicans were handling the election in those
states, he doesn't trust them. So, do you realize what a big deal that
is? We've been the whole January 6 thing depends entirely
on the question of whether our elections are uh unriggable
because if they're unriggable then the people involved in um you know
storming the capital that day should have known that the election was
pristine because they're unriggable and therefore it would look a lot like
an insurrection. Because hey, there's nothing to complain about the election. It's unriggable.
And the Democrats on the news, who are all
have been telling us with a straight face that there is no way that the election was anything but factually good
in 2020. And now the same are telling us that they think the
Republicans can rig an election in their states. Really? So you think the Republicans can
do that, but that the Democrats can't or wouldn't?
That is a complete surrender on the question of whether we
know for sure our elections are rigable or unriggable. If the if everybody from Rosie O'Donnell
to, you know, I think Hillary Clinton said it at one point and now Hakee Jeff
is saying it, they're saying out loud that they that they believe the
elections could be rigged by Republicans and it sort of implies they could do it
without getting caught. Now, they don't say that. They don't say the part about
they could do it without getting caught. But why would Republicans or Democrats
or anybody attempt to rig something if they didn't have a really good way to
get away with it? It's not it's not going to be like if
you knew enough about the system to have a way to rig it, wouldn't you know
enough about the system to know whether they could easily catch you or not? you know, wouldn't you say, "Well,
here's all the ways they could catch us, so if we can't get around this, we won't do it." So, of course, the Democrats
have now admitted that it was possible that any election was rigged and we
don't know it. Well, Tom Cotton has introduced the bill
to uh make it easier to mine rare earth minerals in the US, which as you know um
for for whatever reason that I don't understand u mining for rare earth
minerals is way more ecologically damaging and dangerous than a lot of
different things. So Tom Cotton's bill would make it easier for uh a number of
these uh environmental laws to be looked at individually and if it makes sense to
be uh let's say uh to do a workaround to those. Now why did it take so long for
this? Is there something I don't know about this story? I feel like we should have, you know,
had this bill a long time ago. It's not even passed. It's just introduced.
So, again, yeah, I I can't I can't give Congress
full, you know, full credit for doing what makes sense because they haven't
voted on it yet. Who knows if they will. Um, and why did it take so long? Haven't
we been talking about China and their rare earth mineral monopoly for now
years? It's been years, right? And just now they're coming around. Hey, I've got
an idea. Why Why don't we make it easier to do it in the US? Yes. Yeah. Why don't you do
that? All right.
Um Trump had uh the leaders of five African nations over at the White House
and uh he declared Trump did that it's uh time to benefit Africa by trading
with them as opposed to just sending them money. So the US aid thing is
winding down and some say that that was, you know, uh, keeping people alive in
other countries. And others say it was just a CIA cutout and any anything that
looked like charity was really just a trick to get control over the area. Um,
but uh, Trump is saying, "No, how about now? You might be better off if we just trade
with you." So, let's do that instead. So, that's a new way.
So, I saw that Trump took a bunch of questions at it at that meeting
yesterday, but I'm very impressed how tight his answers are to some kinds of
questions. So, I'm just going to read you a few of his answers. Um he was asked about Harvard and going
after Harvard, the government going after them for being anti-Semitic and stuff. So here's what Trump said. He
said, quote, "Harvard's been very bad, totally anti-Semitic, and yeah, they'll
absolutely reach a deal, saying that they'll come up with some kind of deal with the government." Now, isn't that a
tight answer? Harvard's been very bad, totally anti-Semitic. Yeah, they'll absolutely reach a deal. nothing else to
say. I love how tight that is. And then Peter Ducey
asked about uh the fact that Cory Booker and Alex Padilla uh want the uh border
police and ICE officers to have uh IDs so you can tell who they are and to not
cover their faces. And uh so Trump says quote uh they
wouldn't be saying that if they didn't hate our country and they obviously do
what now I don't believe that you can know what people are thinking and that you
can know that they hate the country but but the fact that that's his only
answer to that and it's so tight. They wouldn't be saying that if they didn't hate our country and they obviously do.
Next question. It does it does seem
that they act as if they hate the country because if you're trying to stop
the people who are stopping the the flood of immigrants coming across the border, it doesn't really look like
you're on the same side as the country. It feels like you're against your own
country. And why would you be against your own country? Well, Trump suggests
that they hate the country. Do you think that's true? Do you think that Cy Booker
and Alex Padilla hate the country? Well, you know, if there were some way
to find out for sure, I'd probably bet against it. But it's such a good
response. Yeah, they wouldn't do it unless they hate the country. Obviously, they do.
Um, Peter Ducey asked Trump if he wanted to see uh James Comey and John Brennan
behind bars. Now, imagine all the ways that Trump could answer that wrong. Would you like
to see Brennan and Comey behind bars? Brennan and Comey are people who tried
to put Trump out of office if not behind bars. And what's he say? Uh, I think they're
very dishonest people. I think they're crooked as hell and maybe they have to pay a price for that. But he acted like
he didn't know the details. So, pretty tight. Good answer.
Remember, you don't have to you don't have to agree with his answer. I'm just impressed at how tight they are. No word
salad there. Um, Trump has threatened 200% tariffs,
according to the New York Post, on uh pharmaceuticals if they're being made in other
countries. But he might wait a year and a half before imposing that to give them time
to try to reshore it in the United States. But a 200% tariff on pharmaceuticals come in. Now obviously
the purpose of that is to encourage them to move to the US to manufacture that
stuff. I don't know if they can do that in a year and a half. And I don't know how this will
not raise prices. It doesn't seem likely to me that this
will have no impact on prices. So you might see your some of your
pharmaceutical drug drugs go up in price. Um, speaking of which,
have I told you how expensive my uh my testosterone blockers are?
Oh my god. With health care. This is with health
care. So, this is not the full price. I paid $1,400 for a month of supply.
$1,400. Now, that's with healthcare. Apparently, the real price might have been I think
it was like $10,000 for just for something that you would need every month for years.
What what how would somebody who didn't have a lot of money even afford that? I I guess
there are alternatives that don't cost that much but have side effects.
So, you would have to pick the one that had side effects and not good side effects either because you wouldn't be
able to afford the good stuff. Now, I I sort of blundered into it. I didn't know
I didn't know it was the good stuff until I got it, but wow, does it work
well. I mean, that's my experience. Um, but can you imagine it? $1,400 a month
for a person with a normal income and a normal job. Just like put that right on
top of everything else. Unbelievable. Anyway,
um according to a news nation, Trump is considering some uh harsher sanctions on
Russia or the Congresses or somebody else. But I asked Grock, what kind of
sanctions are left? like what are they even thinking about? And Grock, this is
not the smart new Grock, but the old the old Grock, um said it would be maybe potentially
secondary sanctions for any financial institute that's dealing with Russia or
maybe a 500% tariff on any country buying Russian oil or natural gas or
uranium. Um but how are we going to do that? We're
just going to slap a 500% tariff on China and India.
That That's not going to happen. Holy cow.
Wow. I'm seeing somebody else's drug expense. Wow.
So, to me, it doesn't look like Oh, and then the other thing would be to seize Russia's 300 billion. I guess we have
frozen Russian assets and then use them for arms purchases in Ukraine. Well, I
don't believe that any of these harsher sanctions are practical.
I don't believe we're going to put a 500% tariff on everything that comes from China and India because they buy
gas from Russia. Does that sound like something we could actually do and get away with? I don't
think so. and uh penalizing the banks
maybe, but wouldn't we have done that already if there were no problem with
doing that? So, I I'm kind of thinking that maybe there are any harsher
sanctions. There's a story in Newsmax that Russia
is turning Ukrainian teenagers into unwitting uh suicide bombers.
So the one the way they do that would be be they'd say, "I'll give you $1,000
if you go do some uh let's say some uh
what would they call it? uh to vandalize a police station in Ukraine. So imagine
you're uh you're a teenager in Ukraine and some Russian contact offers you
$1,000 to go vandalize a Ukrainian police station. Well, it would be pretty
hard to turn down $1,000 if you're a teenager and all you had to do is do some graffiti or something on a police
station and then they give you a backpack and say, "All right, here are your supplies for vandalizing." And then
when you get to the police station, you realize that the backpack they gave you was explosives and they just detonated
it. So, they basically just turned these teenagers into suicide bombers, but they
don't know they're suicide bombers. They think they're just doing some other thing for money.
And uh but apparently some of them maybe they're just flipping and uh they don't
mind, you know, they're not being killed themselves, but they're doing some work
for Russia. I'll tell you these are
the the it's hard to root for Ukraine if their
own teenagers are attacking them at least in small numbers. Well, the uh ex
CEO of X Oh, that's funny. the ex CEO of X who's the let's call her the ex CEO
Linda Yakarino
it's about X and uh Elon Musk said a little bit less
something like thank you for all the contributions
so I don't think they left on the best of terms, just a guess. And we don't
know exactly what the uh we don't know exactly what the problem
was or why she left, but we do know that the timing
was after uh Grock got accused of being anti-Semitic.
So, it could be, although we'd only be guessing, that she just didn't like that
kind of heat and didn't think she needed it in her life. Maybe. Um, it could be
that she's got some other opportunity that she hasn't mentioned. Maybe. Uh it
could be it was just too hard to work with Elon Musk because uh as much as we love him, I don't know
that I would want him to be my boss cuz he'd be pretty tough. So we don't know
why, but she's uh on her way. and uh
the US Secret Service suspended six of the agents who were working at that
Butler event where Trump got shot in the ear. So after the long investigation,
they decided that there were six people who should have done something different than what they did. Six.
That's kind of hard to believe, isn't it? that for one event there would be
six individuals who all didn't do their job at the same time and it was enough
that they would get um at least for a while they got suspended from 10 to 42
days I don't know about that
u I think that was from CBS news according to CNBC
Germany has agreed to import more liqufied natural gas from uh from America. And uh
now the US is officially Germany's largest supplier of LNG.
So I assume that that had been Russia in the past. And so I I I see about one story every
day where some country agreed to buy more of our stuff, often energy, because that's the easiest
thing. Everybody needs some. Um so that's uh that goes to uh Trump's
benefit. Um I saw a uh interesting article by
Orin McIntyre who was at the Blaze and he said uh the right is facing a
serious problem about how to handle its intellectuals and I thought the right has
intellectuals who are these intellectuals and what is this problem?
Well I I think I'll just read you his opinion and then I'll give you mine. Right. So he says
Orin McIntyre says uh the right is facing a serious problem about how to
handle its intellectuals. The left has the university where it can assign smart
people goodpaying high status jobs where they can explore and cultivate ideas.
But the right has no similar institutions. So right-wing intellectuals end up in think tanks or
content production. This creates a the public intellectual
who comes onto the scene with a burst of insight. But content production is a grind. Even
if you're saying intelligent things, eventually the need to say something about everything leaves you little time
to think deeply about anything. Academics are also not really equipped
to be public figures. They are not built to do battle with the hostile public on a regular basis. So, what I'm reading
into this is that if you get on the uh the grind of having to say something
about everything that you just don't have the ability to,
you know, do what you might be able to do in a university, which is take some time to really think through something
more deeply. But I have a completely different view.
My view is that you should not look at the smart people on either side as
individuals. Rather, you should see them as a system or one intelligence.
What I see on the left is uh that their system of how to deal with
smart people on the left is that they are minimized and that the left surfaces
the worst takes from the dumbest people. Now you've seen it, right? The the
people on the left are not being driven by their smartest people. I mean very
clearly they are literally they they have some kind of upside down system where the
loudest most prominent voices are are actually their dumbest people the Jasmine Crockett etc. Right? And you see
it consistently if if somebody's really dumb and they're a Democrat you're going to hear from
them a lot. Okay. But it seems to me that the
smartest people on the right operate like one brain.
You know, your own brain wrestles with things and disagrees with itself all the time, right? You you have that
experience. If it's just you thinking about a new topic in the news, you
probably go back and forth in your own mind. Well, could it be this? Could it be that? What if it's this? What if it's
that? the political right. And I'm not going
to use the word intellectuals. I'm going to say the smartest people. All right? So, I'm going to include like your
Charlie Kirks, your Steve Bannons, your Tucker Carlson's. Nobody would say that
they're intellectuals per se. They're just some of the many smart people on
the right. But what happens when the right disagrees,
which has happened a few times recently, um the conversation is all public and we
all look at each other and uh you know, I might be looking at what Charlie Kirk
says. I might be looking at uh Jack Pasabek, what he says. I might be
looking at a couple of other podcasters. You know, Me, maybe I'm looking at what Megan Kelly says. and and then I'm
forming my opinion which is informed by all of their opinions
and I might make some mistakes. I might make some corrections, but overall,
doesn't it seem to you that the right has a a system in which you get to see a
pretty good debate over what's real and what's not and uh they don't all agree,
but that you get to a point where where the smartest people seem to have surfaced. And there might be more than
one. So there might be smart people that say we should do A and smart people say
we should do B. I think that happened with the big beautiful bill that you saw
not a smart opinion and a dumb opinion. I think you saw two smart opinions. One
smart opinion is we have to deal with the deficit. That's just got to be top
priority. And another smart opinion has said, "We will, but not on this bill
because we have these other priorities." But trust us, we're going to get to it. We understand that that's top priority.
Now, to me, that's a system that is really,
really good. And part of it is driven by the fact that we know that Trump listens.
I don't know how he does it. Um, you presumably it's people talking in his ear that did the listening. But Trump is
paying attention to all these people I mentioned plus, you know, dozens more.
And because he pays attention, it kind of makes your game a little bit better.
You know, you you know that somebody important might be listening to you. So you kind of make sure you think it
through as well as you can. So, I would argue that it's not so much the grind of
producing because I do this every day. I mean, seven days a week and I don't feel it a
grind at all. In fact, you know, the more I interact with content, the more I
see the connections. So, I would argue that the right has developed a system somewhat
accidentally. I don't think it was conscious in which the smartest people act like one brain
that often has more than one opinion, but the smartest opinions eventually
bubble to the top and consistently so. And on the left, the least capable
thinkers, for whatever reason, bubble up to the top. It's a big big difference. So
that's my take but uh I appreciate Orin McIntyre's
uh raising well actually a perfect perfect example. So
you know we might have a different opinion of of this intellectual stuff but we both get to say our thing and
then you get to decide which one bubbles to the top.
All right. Um, so Axios is saying that uh that the top
mega influencers are warning that uh this this Epstein stuff is going to
cause a loss of trust in Trump. Well, we already talked about that, but
do you believe that? Do you believe that the top MAGA influencers are going to lose trust? Maybe a little bit
temporarily, but I'll bet they'll get over it because the alternative is to
trust Democrats. Not much of an alternative. So, I think I think a
disagreement looks completely different on the right. It doesn't look like it's a game ender.
We just go forward with a little disagreement about what we just saw. That's it. It It doesn't It doesn't
drive the MAGA apart. It doesn't it's not some long-term beginning of the end.
It's just we recognize that there are other smart people who have a different opinion and that's it. And then we allow
that and then we go forward. Um,
the College Fix, which is a publication, um, has an article that says, uh, that
college grads are now, uh, unprepared and more unpopular with hiring managers
than ever. Now, doesn't that feel like a story you heard every year of your life,
for your entire life, that the young people are worse than they've ever been?
And I thought to myself, if it's true every single year that the young people
are worse, you worse character, they're lazier, they have the wrong priorities,
etc. If every year, I remember when I was the college graduate, I'm positive
that we were being blamed for being the worst generation of all time. You
hippies, get a haircut. You've ruined everything. You've ruined America. So,
do you believe even though there are plenty of examples and you may have seen plenty of them
yourself, do you believe that the recent batch of uh job
applicants are the worst we've ever seen? Do you believe that?
I I always have this view that the people who matter in commerce and
science is maybe 1%. And everybody else is just keeping the
lights on and that it doesn't matter that much how many bad ones there are
because they weren't moving the the needle anyway. But if the top 1%
is as good as they've always been, and I would argue that they're better than they've ever been, better because we
have more people to choose from, and now they have AI tools to boost their intelligence, etc. As long as our top 1%
is the best it's ever been, everybody else is just making sure that, you know, the garbage gets picked up and the
lights stay on and that's fine. So, I'm not too worried, but maybe I
should be. Um, you know how I keep telling you that
there all these breakthroughs in battery technology? I saw a uh a counter to that
um on what's up with that. Willis Echenbach is uh did an article saying that one one
of the recent stories I told you about about a new battery that could charge in
you know very short time. Um that there's no practical way to do it. It's
just something you can do in the lab. But if you wanted to do that fast charging in the real world, you would
have to vastly change the entire charging network in ways that would be
impractical to change them. So, just be aware that whenever you hear
these stories about amazing breakthroughs in battery technology,
they might be a little exaggerated and they may might not be so practical to actually roll out in our lifetime.
Um, so here's another difference between uh
Democrats and Republicans. I always tell you that Democrats get the incentives wrong, that they don't understand people
for some some reason. I mean, it's weird. Like, who could live in the world
their whole their whole life surrounded by people and then not understand people at least
a little bit? So, here's an example.
um compared to the Republicans. So, uh Brooke Rollins, the a psych secretary,
was noting that um the new rules about Medicaid that were part of the big
beautiful bill, which would cause people to need to work if they were able-bodied, they would have to work to
get their health care, to get their Medicaid. Now, at the same time, Republicans are doing a mass
deportation, which is taking workers away from uh employers. At the same time
that the Medicaid rule should, if everything goes right incentive-wise,
make people who were, you know, sleeping on the couch say, "All right, all right.
I guess I'll take these jobs have now been opened up by the deportations." So
that would be an example of two policies that are complimentary. Here we're getting rid of the people. I
don't want to say get rid of because that's that's sort of um demeaning, but rather
there's a mass deportation of workers that opens up a bunch of jobs that can
be filled by people who want to keep their Medicaid and all they needed was a job. Very compatible systems, right?
Now, let's compare that to the Democrats who want to push climate change and
affordability at the same time. Is is the climate change agenda,
you know, which would suck up tremendous amount of resources and put them in more
expensive forms of energy and would decrease your ability to get the less
expensive energy? Uh, is that compatible with we want to make things more
affordable? No, it's not compatible. So
once again, you see the Republicans build this beautiful system where they
understand the incentives of human beings and then they build a system that matches those incentives. And then you
look at the Democrats and it looks random. It just looks random. Like it's
like they hadn't thought through anything. So look for that pattern. You'll see it.
Well, according to the Public Library of Science, there's an article there saying that loneliness predicts poor mental and
physical health outcomes. Are you surprised that people who are lonely
um it affects their mental health and physical health? Now, you know that I
usually say, well, maybe that's backwards correlation. Maybe people who
have bad mental and physical health have trouble making friends. So, they would
end up being lazier. Not lazier, lonelier. So, it probably works both ways, but I'm
totally willing to believe that loneliness can cause you less good
health. Um, and I'm going to offer you a
solution to that. Um many of you come to watch this show every day and
you see that uh the reason I do it live is because of this loneliness factor.
Don't you feel as if I'm sort of your morning friend who visits with you every morning
in the in the comments that are going by live right now. I know you feel that because you tell me that all the time
and I have very consciously. It's it's not an accident. I've uh presented
myself as your daily friend because you are my friends, but you've
also made friends with the other people in the comments. And before I do the show that you're
watching, you know, my regular live stream, uh, for my subscribers on
Locals, I do about a half an hour of a pre-show.
Now, I used to have a little bit of a resistance to doing the pre-show because
people weren't listening to me. I, you know, all I'm doing is preparing
for the show and getting my coffee and I go down to my little putting room downstairs and I shoot three putts to
see how the day will go. But if I look at the comments,
90% of them are people talking to other people in the comments and they've made
friends with each other. So, they don't know each other except in the comments, although some of them have actually
gotten together. Um, but they they feel this community of people who are just
there because they're lonely. And it's really not about what content
that I give them during the pre-show. It's really about just creating this little uh forum that people who would
otherwise be sitting there lonely um they get to interact with the other people. And it took me a long time to
figure out why when I first fire up the pre-show, which is also a live stream,
it took it took me a long time to figure out why everybody just said hi to each other. So, for the first 10 minutes,
it's nothing but good morning, how you doing? Good morning. And not just to me,
but they're saying good morning to the other chatters as they see them coming online. It's like, "Hey, magician, you
know, hey, hey, this or that." Magician is one of the one of the uh common
users. Common as in every day. Um, so
here here's what I'm going to add to it. Uh, loneliness is definitely dangerous
and uh I've accidentally created a model where people can feel a little less
lonely every day. So, if you were not taking it in that vein, well, maybe you could because I'll
be here every day as long as I can. And uh you might be some people that uh you
want to say good morning to every morning and you might feel a little bit less lonely. All right, that's all I got
for you. I'm going to talk again privately to my local subscribers who are beloved as you know and uh the rest
of you I'll see tomorrow. Thanks for joining. Sorry I went so long. All
right, locals coming at you privately
in 30 seconds.