Come on in. It's time for your favorite part of the day. Come on in here. Get in
here. I'm checking our stocks and looks like stocks are up a little
bit. All right, good for us if you have stocks. All
right, let me get my comments going and then we got a show.
Don't want to miss anything. Come on. There we go.
So, looks like I can't do this upside down and I can't do it right side up because it's got a cord in the way. How
will I make this work? Like that will not be defeated.
Oh, Jean, stay awake.
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if you'd like to try desperately Oh, my
phone fell over. to elevate this experience to levels that no one can
understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you need for that is
a cuper mongra glass of tanker chelerstein a canteen jugger flask a
vessel of any kind fill it with your favorite liquid I like coffee and join me now for the unparalle pleasure the
dopamine end of the day the thing that makes everything better it's called the
simultaneous sip exactly
So good. So, so good. Well, let's uh check the world of
science to see if we can save them any money. Um, oh yeah, here's one. Uh according to
Cornell University, Sarah Magnus Sharp is writing that uh they did some studies
and found out that the secret to keeping your New Year's resolution
is that you have to like the process as much as the goal.
H the process as much as the goal. Huh?
Does that sound familiar at all? Yes. If you don't like this system, you're not
going to get to the goal. A perfect example of that is exercise.
If you choose an exercise that you hate, you're not going to get in shape. Not a
chance. But let's say you follow the disgraced cartoonist
advice and you find some exercise that you enjoy and you reward yourself for
it. I I used to like going to the gym cuz I like the social element of it and
I would give myself a healthy snack when I was done and I was addicted to the
process. So yes, the reason that some people achieve their goals is that they
enjoy the process. The atomic habits guy wrote about this.
Well, yes, the atomic habits guy wrote about a few things that I also wrote about first,
which he admits. He gives me he does give me credit for stuff in his book.
Anyway, uh let's see if uh science has any more surprises for us. Oh, here uh Eric Dolan
is writing about um there were psychedelic retreats for people with uh
PTSD. And they found that if they did psychedelics
um it helped them with their PTSD. Now, does that story sound familiar?
At least once a week, there's a new study where somebody gave somebody some
psychedelics and discovered that it helped their their mental situation greatly. It either solved their
depression or their be PTSD or some other major mental problems. Have you
ever seen a story about uh you know people responsibly
using hallucinogens where it didn't work? I feel like it
works every time they test it. No matter what the domain is, as long as it's
something about mental health, it helps every time. Every person every time. Now
there must be there must be situations where it goes wrong for some people. So
don't take any don't get any medical advice from me. I'm just noting that every time this story is in the news has
the same ending. Yeah, it was a big difference. Something should something
should happen. If we uh we could replace I believe all
therapy with uh AI as your therapist just
telling you to uh responsibly take some hallucinogens.
Maybe maybe that's all you need. Um
I saw a post by Wall Street apes on X. They showed a video of there's some
company in San Francisco. I don't know what company that'sing a little robot
uh on wheels, you know, not not the kind that looks like a person, but a little robot on wheels for delivering stuff in
urban environments. And they're testing it, this doesn't seem real, but I think it
is. They're testing it in LA um to see if they can deliver things on
the sidewalk, but they they had to do a test where they put mannequins on the
sidewalk like uh like homeless people who had passed down from fentinel.
And then they they had to test the robot to see if it would go around the bodies the homeless people lying on the
sidewalks. And uh I think it did,
but uh we're just assuming from the video that what they were testing was if the robots could go
around the humans. What we didn't see is if they're testing the robot to kill the
humans and then go around them. I don't know. I don't know. We just saw the
bodies. We don't know how they died, but it might be the first step in the robots
destroying all humanity. Speaking of that, Perplexity, the AI company that
I've said good things about in the past, it's uh it's a hot little AI company. Um
I don't know if it will survive because it's not one of the top three. If you're
not in the top three, I don't know if the government will even let you be successful. So maybe Apple will buy them
or something. But Perplexity has rolled out its own browser called Comet.
And I saw one report on Tech Radar by John Anthony Dodto who tested it and he
was impressed. Now the reason that an AI company would want to make its own uh
browser is so the browser could act as your agent and do a bunch of stuff while
you're doing whatever you want to do. So, um, as, uh, John Anthony points out in
his article that when you first start using it, um, it doesn't seem like it's a big time saver because you tell it to
do something and then you sit there and watch to make sure it did it. So, it takes about, you know, it's not really
that much of a timesaver because you're prevented from doing something else because you're watching to make sure it
worked. But as he points out, you eventually reach a point where you realize, wait a minute, this usually
works. So, I'll just tell it to make some reservations or whatever, whatever you're telling it to do, and I'll do
some work on something else in the meantime. And apparently, that is a big wow experience because when you get back
to it and it did what you wanted, you saved a lot of time. Now, here's my
take. I've been saying this for probably
20 years or more in public and people always fight me on this and you will
fight me too. So get ready to fight me. Here's what I believe. I believe that uh
humans want to maintain privacy as much as possible. So far we're on the same
page. Everybody likes privacy mostly about themselves.
We don't care about privacy for other people, but we like it for ourselves.
Um, but in order to use and really get all the benefit from these AI agents,
they're going to need to have your passwords and they're going to need to know all
about you because the things that you want them to do, such as making reservations or whatever, it's going to
require a lot of knowledge about you. you know, your name, your address, in
some cases, maybe your social security number if you're telling it to deal with something financial or banking or
whatever. How many of you would feel comfortable giving your own AI if they
told you, "Oh, it's totally secure. We'll never look at it at the company level." How many of you would feel
comfortable with an AI that has your password for anything important?
Maybe for making restaurant reservations, maybe. But would you let it have access
to your bank? Because if you did, think of all the
time you would save. I would love an AI that had access to my bank cuz I'm
continually signing up for, you know, things that are autopay or debugging
some problem with my bank or the there's a credit card that got stolen. Just
always I'm just always dealing with bank and IRS stuff. How many of you would
trust your AI to have access to all of that stuff? The answer is none of you, not a single
one of you, and certainly not me, would feel comfortable with it. Now,
here's the part that I've been predicting. We'll all get over it. We'll get over
it. Once you realize that privacy was always an illusion,
you're going to let it go. It's always been an illusion. The only thing that
protects your privacy in a world where the government can get access to anything that they want, they only need
to have a reason. And it doesn't have to be even a good reason. It could be a
reason they made up because they're lawfaring you. So you don't have any privacy. The only thing you do you have
that protects you is your boringness.
Have you heard me say this before? The only protection you have is being boring
and not being interesting to the government, not being interesting to hackers, not being interested to people
at, you know, banks and other places that have access to your private information.
The only reason that all of you have not been victimized is that you're boring.
There there is somebody who could get access to everything you have, the government. Uh they just need a reason.
As long as you're boring, no reason. But the moment you do a freak off, you know,
sort of Diddy style, well, suddenly they're they're accessing your phones
and your computers and talking to everybody who ever know knew you. You don't have privacy.
You don't even have a little bit of privacy. You have zero privacy. You only have the right to be boring. That's it.
Nothing else. So, I'm not saying that you should give up your privacy. And I'm not saying I
would enjoy it if it happened if I lost mine. Wouldn't like it at all. But uh I
bet you once we realize that privacy went away a long time ago or maybe you
never had it that uh you'll just say yeah I don't really have any serious
privacy cuz my government can get whatever they want if not hackers but I
can use these AI agents to make my life 10 times easier. So I think people will
just get over privacy. That's my prediction. And again, I'm not saying you should or that you'll like it. I'm
just predicting that's where it will go. Well, Soft Bank, the company is
SoftBank. Um, according to digital trends, Trevor Moog is writing that uh
they've developed AI agents to make each worker like a thousand armed deity.
So the head of Soft Bank, um, Son Mayashi
Masa Yoshi, uh, he said that they now have this technology
that would allow you that that would allow the AI to make its own agents and
you could have potentially one person could have, you know, a million AI agents doing stuff for you.
Um, but I say I don't believe this is a
fruitful direction because if you had one AI agent and you told it to make
some hotel reservations, it wouldn't be a big burden on you to check and make
sure it did it right and then correct whatever wasn't right. But if you had a million agents that
were doing things on your behalf or even a hundred, how in the world would you
supervise all that? And would you feel comfortable that if you didn't supervise it, the AI was going to go and do it
correctly, the way you want, and not cause you any problems? I don't know. I
feel like there will be a natural limit to how many AI agents anybody will ever
want working on their behalf because you got to check their work all the time. So maybe
three might be your limit. Not a million.
Well, Delta Airlines, according to Fortune magazine, Arena Yanova is
writing, they're eliminating set prices for their flights in favor of having the
AI determine how much you personally will pay for a ticket. And apparently,
this is already being uh it's rolled out and it's being tested on a small
percentage of their customers. To which I asked the question on X and everybody
had the same answer. How much would you be happy to find out
that the price you were paying for your airline ticket at Delta was determined by the AI figuring out the most you were
willing to pay? I can't think of anything that would
make me hate the company more than that. Can you? Because how would the AI
determine how much you're willing to pay? What does it know about you?
Let me give you an example. Let's say your uh one of your parents is elderly and
you're making frequent flights to spend time with them. Wouldn't Delta figure out that this
person is going to book those frequent flights because there's obviously something on the other end that's
important to that person. And so they raise the price for you to see your dying parents.
Now, it wouldn't know it's doing that. It would just say, "I feel like this person's going to pay a little more for a ticket because they fly a lot. So,
there must be something on the other end of that flight that they really care about." How in the world could it could
it possibly charge me more than other people for whatever it is I want where I wouldn't want to go in with a machine
gun and kill everybody at their company. Don't do that, by the way. That's not a
That is not a call to violence. Uh, oh my god. I really can't think of a
worse a worse idea, but we'll see. They swear they're going to roll it out.
All right. Uh, Trump announced yesterday that they're cutting federal funding for
California's ridiculous high-speed rail project. They had uh billions of dollars
um approved, but it managed to build basically no high-speed rail at all. And
I said to myself, well, that'll teach California because once that federal
funding is cut, there's no way they're going to keep wasting this money. But then I looked at the context
and the entire project is currently estimated to cost $128 billion to build
California's highspeed rail. I didn't even know they were still working on it. Did anybody know that? I thought that
project was killed a long time ago. But the amount that the uh and that's
the estimate is four times the original estimated price of 33 billion. So it
went from I think we could do this for 33 billion to I don't know but we might
be able to get it done for 128 billion. And you learn that after you start.
That's like every project I did in my corporate days.
it was my job to uh evaluate vendors for various technology purchases that we
needed. And so I'd, you know, go out for a bid. Uh I'd ask companies to bid on
it. All right, we need to replace this internal storage device. And then all
the companies would bid. And then I would take the low bid of the best
company that was qualified to do it. And I would take it to my boss and I'd say, "Here's the one that's the lowest bid
for this exact thing that we want." And then what would happen after I signed
the deal every time? What would happen as soon as you sign it or maybe as soon
as you install it, you immediately learn that you needed to spend more for something that hadn't been mentioned.
And so on day one, your your lowpriced vendor, the one that had the lowest
price, surprises you with, "Oh, well, it looks like we specified something that's
a little underpowered for what you need." But no problem if you just pay more. you could have the better model
and then it's too late to start all over again and you don't want to tell your boss that you screwed up. What are you
going to do? Well, the vendor knows exactly what you're going to do. You're going to pay the higher price. So in the
real world, things do go the way that this high-speed rail went, which is
somebody bid, I could get that done for 33 billion. And then probably the moment
it was improved, the people who said they could do it for 33 billion, started
doing probably was lots of different entities, but about every one of the entities said, "All right, yes, totally.
Yep. Uh, our portion would only cost a billion." Well, unless you want to go
all the way down to state, which is what you want. Well, that would be two billion. And then all the other people
involved do the same thing. So, well, now that it's all approved, I got to admit, we're taking a closer look and we
probably can't do it for that price, but for twice that price, we can totally get it done.
So, that's the way of the world. Everything gets approved at an artificially low price and then the bad
people creep it up. But apparently the federal amount was only 4 billion. So if
we think it'll cost 128 billion and Trump only took away 4 billion, it
shouldn't make any difference at all to whether it gets built. I mean it's such a small percentage. But we'll see. I
expect nothing to happen. But uh do other countries have the same problem
where they can't get stuff done? Well, turns out that the UAE is planning to
build an underwater bullet train which doesn't exist anywhere. So they would
connect um Dubai and Mumbai. So from
Dubai to Mumbai there would be this cool underwater train experience high-speed
train and they would make it so that the the underwater view is amazing so that
you're looking at amazing underwater stuff as you go. So that's what the UAE
is doing. How does the UAE get something done like
that? Because it feels like in the Middle East that things are getting done.
Um, maybe not that big city of M or whatever is Saudi Arabia. I think Saudi
Arabia is having that cost overrun thing too, building their big futuristic city.
But we'll see. We'll see if the UAE can do what California cannot do times 10.
Um, if you watched the Shan Ryan broadcast podcast with uh Gavin Newsome,
you saw that Gavin Newsome was angry at Trump for among other things uh giving
him the nickname new scum. And the problem that new that that Gavin
Newsome has with his nickname new scum is that uh he has children and the
children get bullied at school and they get called new scum too.
Now I am very much opposed to this situation where you call Gavin
Newsome new scum uh but it has a you know downhill impact on the children
being bullied and I think you need something to distinguish
the two because you don't want the the father and the children to be suffering under the same nickname. So, what I
recommend is that Gavin be called old scum and maybe his children would just
be new scum. Sort of like Junior. No, I'm against bullying.
That's just a joke. But is kind of funny. New scum and old scum.
If I were his kids, I don't know how old they are. I think they're probably teens.
If I were his teenage kids and people were calling me new scum, I would insist
that my father be referred to as old scum because it would be funny to me.
All right. Well, apparently there's a a new poll of Democrat congressional
people approval and uh the job approval according to the New York Post, Victor
Navas writing about this, they they've hit a uh a new all-time low. So, they're
now at uh 19% only 19% of registered voters approve of
the way Democrats in Congress are handling their job. That's a Quinnipiac
University poll. 19%. Is that the lowest it's ever been?
It feels like it, right? Um, newer scum. New scum and newer scum. That's pretty
funny. Uh, so I'm going to predict that Democrat
congressional approval will hit single digits. So, you know, something something below
10. If they're doubts of 19, I don't know if there's a bottom for this. So, we'll
see. Well, Newsmax is reporting that Columbia University is trying to address the
problem that the uh the Trump administration is withholding something
like 400 million in federal funds because they say Colombia is not doing
enough to fight anti-semitism. So, Colombia has decided to try to get
their $400 million back by agreeing to a bunch of uh requirements placed on them
for fighting anti-semitism. And I said to myself, well, what what
are they asking them to do? Well, here's a list um of things they're going to do.
They're going to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of anti-semitism.
So, so they won't have as much ambiguity about what is and what isn't. They will
accept that uh that organization's definition of anti-semitism.
Now, what would that be? What would their definition be? um their definition
would be that uh some critiques of Israel the country as a Jewish state
might cross a line into anti-semitism. They gave some examples.
So if you were to publicly deny the well or privately I guess deny the Jewish
people's right to self-determination, you would be anti-semitic.
Their right to self-determination. What what does that even mean? What what
would it mean to deny somebody's right to self-determination?
Doesn't everybody sort of have that right a little bit? I don't even know
what it means. So that'd be trouble. Um or claiming so it would be anti-semitic
according to this definition if you claim that the existence of Israel is a racist endeavor.
So don't do that. Um, and if you compare the current Israeli
policies with that of the Nazis, um, that would be considered anti-semitic.
So, you can't call Israel Nazis. Um, but just to be clear, you can still
call everybody else a Nazi. Um, you can call Trump a Nazi, you can call me a
Nazi, you can call everybody a Nazi, but you cannot call um your Israeli policies
Nazi. Now, here is something you need to know.
I I talk about this a lot actually, but I'll put it in this context as well.
Whoever controls the definition of words controls you.
Let me say that again. Whoever controls the definition of words, in this case,
anti-semitism, controls you because they can decide, well, according to my definition, you
just did something illegal, so you go to jail or you get kicked out or whatever the penalty is.
So whenever you see this, we've decided this this one organization will be in
charge of the definition of the word. You don't want to be in that situation.
You you want to be able to have the right to use words the way you would like them to mean. And if other people
have a different definition for it, well, you can fight it out, you know, verbally. But uh if you let somebody
else decide what your definitions of words are, they are in charge of you. So
I would suggest that uh Israel is making a step in the in the wrong direction
because they're one of their biggest complaints is that the anti-semites say
Israel has too much control in the United States. Well, they're talking about this
now. Now, it's not the country of Israel. In this case, it's the International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance, which I'm sure is a fine organization. I have no problem with it whatsoever. And obviously, if they if
they have the option of being in control of the definition, of course, they'd want that. You know, why wouldn't they?
You should want it, too. We should all want to be in charge of the definitions because that puts you in charge of
everything. But um they're working with so Colombia
is also working with the Anti-Defam League and there what else are they doing? Um
they're going to appoint a coordinator to ensure compliance with whatever civil rights acts. Sounds good. And they're
going to allow they're going to work with the Anti-Defamation League to create training on anti-semitism.
So, a little bit like the definition thing. So, if Colombia um delegates the
training materials to the Anti-Defamation League, they're really putting the Anti-Defamation League in
charge of some important stuff. So, I feel as though
um this may be one step forward, two steps back.
Um it's good to try to battle anti-semitism. So, I'm all in on that. Um, but if the
way you're doing it is you're putting in some organization's definition of what
what would allow you to be kicked out of school or jailed or punished or
cancelled or whatever. Um, that's a horrible idea and you I would imagine
that for the people who are, you know, paying attention at some level that's beyond what the average public is paying
attention that this would make them even more angry about what they would see as
Jewish control of America. Now, um, since I don't go to Colombia, I
don't really have a dog in this fight, but it looks like the thing that the, uh, Trump administration is requiring of
them to get on the right side of anti-semitism probably will make it worse.
I think it would make it worse. So, I'm going to blame not Colombia for this,
but whoever is making Colombia do it, which is the Trump administration. So bad on the Trump administration
for putting somebody else in charge of definitions of words.
Um, according to an ex user called cartoons hater, must be a cartoonist, I
don't know. Um, she she talks about how being in the old days, not too long ago,
being a good dancer used to be something that men tried to do. So apparently men
at one point tried to be good dancers because they thought it would attract women. And it was I remember when I was
younger that was one of the main things that people said is that uh yeah just
learn to dance and then you'll have all these women. But according to cartoons
hater that dancing is now a social activity that is uncommon. Did you know
that? Did you know that dancing is no longer as big a deal as it used to be? I
didn't know that. I I assume it was always the same. Um, but in the current
day when men dance, in quotes, dance, they either do slow dances or they
barely move. So back in the 80s, you know, people would try to be doing disco and they'd have, you know, John Travolta
moves and stuff and uh people were trying to figure out why, what changed that men don't dance anymore. And
somebody said it's because dancing looks gay, maybe,
but also that if you didn't dance very well, somebody with a a phone is going
to take a video of you and humiliate you in public. to which I thought that might
be that might be true. But I think in general just men are not trying as hard.
Men are not just not trying to even attract women. Um
and we'll we'll talk about that a little bit more. Victor Davis Hansen has an article in the postmillennial talking
about this Tik Tok influencer who says that women are stealing salads
at restaurants when when the order is up for some order to go. Uh the Tik Tok
influencer say women are stealing salads of what they think would be maybe some
guy that they could f date in the future. And then they use LinkedIn to stalk the real owner and contact them
and say, "Oh, I'm sorry. It appears I accidentally got your salad." And it's a
way for women to somewhat casually meet a man. Now, first of all, I don't believe
anything about this story. I do not believe that that happened more than one time in the entire world. There may have
been one person who once stole a salad or got one accidentally and thought,
"Oh, I think I'll contact this person." Maybe one person ever. So, I do not
believe this is any kind of a trend. Um,
but it does speak to the fact that, you know, the regular dating apps and all that stuff are not working, dances not
working, dating apps are not working. And uh
and uh some people are complaining that uh men don't approach women anymore
and ask them on dates. Is that something you've heard? I I've heard this. I've heard it from uh single women. They say
that men just don't approach them. They just don't. They used to, but they don't. Now, why do you think that is?
Let let me fill you in on what why men don't approach women. Are you ready?
It only works for handsome people who are tall and have most of their hair or
are in good shape at least. If you're a really good-looking guy, you
can walk up to anybody and they'll be like, "Maybe."
If you're not a good-looking guy, which would be 95% of the public, you can't
walk up to a stranger and get a good reaction because the only thing they have to go on is your dumb opening line,
which is always dumb, and what you look like. It doesn't work.
Why do you think people uh put photos on dating apps that don't look anything like they actually look? is because if
they walked up to you in person, you'd say, "No thanks." So, dating is mostly trickery. You know,
trying to fool somebody into being attracted without them knowing that's what you were doing.
So, I would say that if you're not among the 5% tall and handsome guys that the
only way you're going to attract women is to not approach them, but rather be
talented as something in a public way. If you can be rich and successful in a
public way, you will attract all the female attention that you've ever wanted.
If you can't show that you have something going on, that you're good at this sport or good at making money or
good at something, um you're not going to attract anybody. So, dancing doesn't work, dating apps
don't work, walking up to women doesn't work. But if you got something going on,
women will come up to you. And in my limited dating experience over my
lifetime, um I've never been confused about whether a woman was interested in me
because they show it so obviously. Is that your experience men that when a
woman is interested in you, you you know it you know it so easily. It's never a
surprise, is it? So anyway,
um, according to Daniel Greenfield, he's writing that one in three Americans feel
lonely every week and one in five feel lonely every day. And less than half of
households are headed by married couples now and 63% of single people are not
looking for a relationship. And th this next one is the thing that blows my mind. The majority of Gen Z
didn't date as teenagers. They didn't date. Almost twothirds of
the young generation didn't date at all as teenagers.
I wonder what that used to be. Well, well, so things are bad there.
Um, according to Nick Noly on Braaybar News, uh, during the first half of 2025,
reruns of the old Gunsmoke TV show in black and white from what, the 60s, um,
reruns of that earned more streaming minutes than any of the, um, any of the
Disney syndicate movies.
So, I have to confess that recently I sampled some old Gunsmoke TV show on
Netflix, I guess. And the reason was that all modern content is terrible. And
I discovered that looking at really, really old content is kind of fascinating. It it's not entertaining
in the traditional modern way, but it's absolutely fascinating to just see the
old sets and you know the way they did things, the way they talked and uh how
how rapidly they developed a story instead of making you watch two gay people make out forever so that you can
know, okay, I got it. I got it. They like each other. I got it. Okay, I got it. So the old stuff would just skip
everything that was boring and just give you like a tight little story. The
modern stuff usually has some director who's got power and the director says,
"Oh no, we we need a good 10 minutes of these gay people making out cuz
otherwise how will the audience know how much they like each other?" So the old
days was much better content even though even the even the old comedies I was
watching like New Hart. I watched New Hart the original old very old black and
white because I remember laughing hysterically at it when I was a young child. There
are not even any jokes in that thing by modern standards. There's not a single
joke and it's a comedy. Now, that's fascinating to me to find out what used
to be funny, but you wouldn't you would not laugh once. You could watch I think
I watched about several episodes in a row. Not one laugh, but yet fascinating
to see how they made it in the old days. I liked watching it, but no jokes that
you would recognize by today's standards. Well, Trump has signed something called the Halt Fentinel Act.
It's going to permanently classify all fentinyl related substances as schedule one and it gives the law enforcement
some tools to work on that. That's good. I don't know if that'll make any difference. And separately,
um you know that uh China has agreed to do more on fentinel because they've got
a permanent um tariff on them. Trump is put an extra 20% tariff on China because
of fentinel. They weren't doing enough to stop the flow into the US, the precursor flow.
So, China's, you know, done some things and arrested some people and acted like
they're doing something about it. Now, like I said about Trump monetizing the
Ukraine war, instead of solving it, he said, "Well, all right. If you Europeans
really want this war to go on, how about we just sell you weapons and we make a
profit? So he monetizes the Ukraine Russia war, which I have to admit
is kind of kind of smart, just monetizing it. And then you could
wait as long as you want. Like you your whole uh your whole who wants to blink
first is totally answered. Well, we're not going to blink. We're making money.
We'll just keep making money. If you guys want to keep fighting, go ahead.
Um, but now he's Trump has monetized fentinol
because we assume that China won't do enough to stop the flow because they probably want it to keep going. But
we'll just keep charging them 20% extra tariff.
So, do I want the fentinel trade to be stopped? Yes, of course. But if you know
you can't stop it, why not monetize it?
Now, Trump could never say that out loud that he's just monetizing the horrific
fentinel trade because it's killing people like crazy. But if your option is
it's going to happen anyway, you might as well monetize it. There
there's something about that that I hate and I love at the same time.
I just love the fact that Trump keeps finding ways to monetize our problems.
If he can't solve them, you might as well monetize them. Charge
other countries for it. Okay. Well, if you're watching the uh drama
with Fed Chair Jerome Powell and Trump wants him to quit. He thought about
firing him, but he says he's not going to fire him, which the markets liked
because they thought the idea of Powell getting fired for what would be, you
know, no legitimate cause at this point would be a bad move. Uh, so Fed, so if
Trump ever wanted to do that, he's he says he's backed off it or he never thought about it. I don't know which,
but he says he won't do it. Now, the exception would be if they found some
male feasance or corruption or something that we don't know about, and then there would be a reason to do it, and then he
could do it. Um, but one of the reasons, the
potential reasons might be that the Fed is building a new headquarters and I
guess it was like 2.5 billion dollars they needed just for renovations and
some of it looked a little extreme. So, Bill PTE um he's the head of uh federal
housing, director of federal housing. Um he's uh volunteered to take a tour of
the construction project because he's an expert on construction. That's his background. And to uh let us know if
there's anything that looks corrupt there. As in, how could you possibly spend $2.5 billion
just renovating? I mean, if you were building it from scratch, maybe, but renovating 2.5
billion and uh that would be an interesting idea. So, if Trump agrees to
that, I guess Trump could probably authorize that. Um, you might see Bill Py doing a tour of the headquarters
construction project and letting us know if uh Jerome Powell should be fired.
Now, as far as I can tell, Jerome Powell would never spend a day in that new headquarters, right? Because his term is
over in May, no matter what. And uh I can't imagine they'd be done with this
project by May. So, it doesn't seem like he's building this
um you know, this project for his own consumption. But there might be something going wrong
here in terms of who got the contracts or just essentially managing the project
correctly. There may be poor management here. So Bill Py might find enough to uh make
a move there. Give give Trump enough ammunition to make a move. And by the way, if you're not following the career
of Bill PTE, you really should pay attention because I'm going to tell you right now, he could be one of your
future presidents. If if you're not already keyed into that idea, start paying attention. He he has
the full talent stack and uh he's clearly,
you know, highly uh you know, America first super patriot and he doesn't need
the job. You know, he's very successful in his his life. He doesn't need the
work. Uh but he's putting in, you know, serious serious work into making our
country better. So keep an eye on Bill PE. He has the entire talent and stack
to take it as far as he wants. I don't know how far he wants, but he could go as far as he wants.
Um, let's see. I asked, uh, today is the day that there's a national protest against
Trump, right? Um, that is the day, July 17th. They should
be doing some national multi-ity protest generic. Now, this would be a paid
professionally organized protest. It's not organic and so we really shouldn't care about it at all except have fun
mocking it. But I asked on X yesterday, what would be a name for these protests
that are not organic? You know, they're just Democrat funded um trouble. Uh, I
started with the idea of pro pesters. Instead of protesters
with a letter T, it would be pester with a a P as in puppy. So, protorers,
but number of people had uh a bunch of other uh suggestions, so you might want
to look at those. They're on my X feed. Well, the Department of Justice fired uh
James Comey's daughter. Um she was an attorney who worked for the Southern
District of New York, I believe, and she handled the Epstein case and the Galain
Maxwell case and the Diddy case. There's no word as to why she was fired, but one
assumes it's just some kind of a revengey thing on top of she would be
maybe, you know, anti- mega and maybe if you were in her crosshairs,
you would not get a fair trial. I don't know what the reasons were, but um
it's not a big surprise, right? It's not the biggest surprise in the world that she got fired. And I don't think we need
any reasons. Do you care? U obviously uh
there's a political element to that. Well, the estimates for how much the
Trump tariffs might bring in and remember they're not entirely paid by the foreign countries. Um they might pay
for some of it, but uh it's paid by the companies in the US who are importing.
Um but the estimate is that it will bring in $300 billion in tariff revenue
to the government by the end of the year. Now what if
um it turns out that it can make I don't know half a trillion dollars a year just
on on nothing but tariffs. Suddenly
you're starting to look like you're balancing the budget. I think there's still a billion and a half, no a
trillion and a half left that they would still need to cover, but uh you you're
gooseing the economy. You're making some cuts to the budget. We'll talk about that in a minute. Uh and you're adding
tariff revenue. So Trump is thinking he might be able to get the the budget
balanced within his term. Do you believe that? You know, I think there were lots of
things we didn't believe about tariffs that are turning out to be Trump was right. So, I'd hate to say you can't do
it, but it's quite a stretch to get the the
budget balance. Maybe there's nobody else who I think could come close. So
maybe um the former chief of staff to first lady Jill Biden was uh interviewed by
the congressional people who were looking into the autopen stuff and he
took the fifth. He refused to answer questions uh about whether the White House concealed Joe Biden's broken brain
or not. So, let's uh let's do an update of all the
frauds and hoaxes that we've uncovered from the Democrats. Now, I'm not going
to say the Republicans are totally innocent of all bad behavior.
But here are just the ones from the Democrat side of things.
We have learned that the NOS were mostly fraudulent money laundering situations.
Now, there would be some Republicans involved there, too, but the ones we hear about seem to be all Democrat
badness. So, learning the immense
fraud of the NOS's that that are getting unwound at this point, that's huge. Then
we know that our protests which we used to believe were organic like Black Lives
Matter and we now know that those are just a sort of a hoax
fake you know organized protests. So we know that now. Now, we've got uh the FBI
is looking into the Crossfire hurricane thing, which was the idea that Trump
colluded with Russia, which we know now was just a hoax perpetrated by the
Hillary campaign. And uh the effort is to find out if there's a case that can
be made against Obama and Brennan and the top people in the FBI. And of course, there's already enough
information that largely guarantees that it was a plot, which is maybe one
of the worst things that's ever happened in this country. Then there's the autopan and Biden's
brain and how that was all hidden. That's one of the worst things we've ever seen. Then there was all the
lawfare against Trump. And yes, I understand that there was a jury and he was found guilty of some things, but
nobody reasonable thinks that anybody else would have been even brought to trial on any of that stuff. So, the
lawfare against Trump, Democrat plot uncovered. Then there was
the uh fine people hoax that the media contributed to. Um, and Biden actually
ran his campaign on the fine people hoax. Uh, then there was the January 6th
insurrection hoax, which the entire country doesn't know as a hoax yet, but
obviously was. The hoax part is uh not that there were, you know, agents or
provocators in the audience. There might have been, but I've never been really interested in that part. The part I'm
interested in is that the news never talked to anybody who was a protester to
ask them why they were protesting. The most basic thing you would want to know about that story. Cuz if you ask
them, they would not say, not any of them, well, we know Trump lost, but we
wanted to install him like a dictator anyway. Not a single person thought that. They thought that Biden cheated
and they wanted to slow things down to find out if that were the case.
So that turned into, you know, massively jailing MAGA people and using against
Trump. Um, so that's one of the worst hoaxes in American history. Then there was climate change hoax, which I think
at this point you could definitely call a hoax. Um, there was a Hunter Biden laptop thing, the cover up of the Hunter
of the Biden crime family activities. Nothing ever went anywhere on that. Um,
and now we've got what Trump calls the Epstein hoax. Um, the now Epstein of course was a real
person who did real bad things. So that part's not a hoax. The hoax is that the
reason that uh Trump and company are not giving you more information about it is
that they're covering up something and maybe it's something about Trump himself. Now, that part's a hoax. The
the part about Trump, there's no evidence that he was involved other than he knew Jeffrey Epstein until he decided
that he had to part ways with him. Um,
and then look at the fake news. We've learned in the Trump era that the news
was really not even trying to be real. It wasn't even trying to be real. And I
don't think everybody knew that. So, when you put all these together,
it it's the most um criminal looking activities I've ever
seen in my life. So the the Democrat party appears to be just a criminal
organization. Now clearly there are also Republicans who break laws and you know sometimes in
big ways but I don't know of any major stories
that would blame the Republicans of breaking some major laws that are real.
I mean if if there are those stories they're usually hoaxes themselves. So, it's unbelievable that we consider this
some kind of a political contest. One side are criminals top to bottom.
They're just criminals. And you know, they've got these upstanding jobs and stuff, but to me it
looks like a organized criminal enterprise, the Democrat party. And I mean that with no hyperbole. I I gave
you the examples, right? If if you simply accepted that most of the things
I listed that that we we do know that the Democrats were involved with if most
of it's true and most of it's true of course it looks like a criminal enterprise. I
don't know that you could do the same thing with the Republicans. Could you make the same case that the Republicans
are basically a criminal enterprise? I don't feel like you could. When we talk
about Republicans, it's usually something like um they're fighting with each other
about something. It It's not that they've organized a multi-year gigantic organized hoax. I
don't see that. It's only one side that seems to be doing that.
Well, here's a semifake news that NPR and PBS funding has been cut by the
Senate. Now, of course, the House would have to uh approve of the tweaks that
the Senate made, but we assume that will happen. So, the Congress will pull back
9 billion in funding, federal funding that would have gone to NPR and PBS. Now, the part of it that's fake news is
that I think most people assume that's where all the funding comes from, but I think the reality is
um it's it's a somewhat smallalish percentage of their total operation. So,
it doesn't mean NPR and PBS will go away. Probably just means they'll work harder on their private fundraising, my
guess. Um, President Trump apparently sidstepped
some Epstein questions on his latest spray, they call it. Um,
some um, some reporter, CNN reporter asked whether he'd consider appointing a
special counsel to look into the Epstein stuff. And I think he's not opposed to
it, but maybe he didn't weigh in on it. But he does say he wants people to move
on from that story. And he says that uh the people demanding the Jeffrey Epstein
files be released are quote stupid and foolish. Now what's interesting about that is
that he's describing about half of his supporters as stupid and foolish. Now, I'm not one
of them, meaning that I've not demanded that they release more because I'm
satisfied that we elect people whose job it is to tell us if there's something we
need to see. And I like those people. And I think that if they decided we
shouldn't see something, I'm okay with that. I don't feel like I'm the backseat driver where if uh Dan
Bonino says, "No, there's nothing here to see." I don't feel like I need to dig into it personally.
Didn't we hire Trump to hire people, you know, to appoint people and hire people who would get what we want done?
So, there's no guarantee that there isn't some dirty stuff in there that we'd like
to see and we should see, but uh I don't think it's stupid or foolish to ask for
it. Um
so, so Trump is trying to turn this into another Democrat hoax and only part of
it is a hoax. The hoax is the part that the reason he doesn't want to release things is cuz he's involved. But suppose
they got a uh some kind of special counsel to look into it. Would you be
satisfied with whatever the special counsel came up with? Because what would
happen if the CIA said, "Here's the deal, special counsel. It's a state
secret and you're not allowed to tell anybody." Could the special counsel say,
"Well, I'm special counsel. You can't tell me that. I'm going to do it anyway." I don't know. I don't know if a
special counsel would get us everything we need to know. Elon Musk is still on this and he asked
Grock on X. He said, "Uh, there was a leak of cell phone tracking data on the
island, Epstein's Island, and he asked Grock, can you correlate that with the individuals who visited the island?"
uh and then assess the probability that those who went to Epstein Island um despite having planes of their own
did so purely to save gas. And Grock said the flight logs show Bill
Clinton visited Little St. James 12 plus times. Prince Andrew was there multiple
times. Alan Dersowitz, Kevin Alan Dersitz was the lawyer. Kevin Spacy,
Chris Tucker, they have all been there. and Trump flew on the plane seven times,
but he never went to the island. Um,
so and then there were a bunch of devices that were logged and hypothetically
you could find out who who was using their cell phone on the island to confirm that they were there. Now, if
Bill Clinton went to Little St. jams 12 times. Do you have any question
whatsoever whatsoever about what he did while he was there?
Do you really believe that Bill Clinton went to Little St. James without his wife 12 times
and that he went there because he liked the beach or he liked hanging out with his friend?
really. There's actually no other reason that he would have gone there 12 times, unless
he was doing some stuff that maybe you wouldn't want to know. So, I'm wondering
if Bill Clinton is the reason that these files are not fully disclosed.
Do you think it's Bill Clinton? It might be because he would be
certainly somebody that the entire Democrat um machine would want to
protect because it would be a way of protecting Hillary at the same time and you know sort of protecting the
Democrats in general. But I feel like
if if we know that Bill Clinton went to the island 12 times and then nothing is
being released to us, as in nothing happened, come on.
Let's be serious. At the very least, they're covering up
for Bill Clinton. Would you agree? Whatever else they're covering up for, I
don't know. But if you're telling me that they're not covering up for the guy who went there 12 times with then his
wife 12 times. I mean, let's be serious.
Of course, he was involved in things he doesn't want you to know about. I mean, I feel like it's just screamingly
obvious. the people who were on Epstein's plane
like Trump, I I feel, you know, there's there's no direct evidence that he did
anything illegal on the plane. And I guess they lived in about the same place and traveled back to New York City a
lot. So sometimes it was just I don't know just easier or wanted to hang out
with his friend or whatever. I don't know. Um but what we know from Durowitz is that
there was no client list per se. Remember Durowitz was Epstein's lawyer. So he knows more than we do. Uh he knows
the names of the accused. So there are people who have not been named who have been accused. He says that Trump is
definitely not accused. There's nothing about Trump there. That's an accusation in the files. and
he believes that the CIA were not involved with Epstein because Epstein
would have mentioned it to his lawyer who was Nurowitz if he wanted to have
the best leniency to which I say really
do you believe that the CIA would agree that he was working that
they were working with Epstein if the topic was underage children.
I don't think so. I think that if the CIA were involved in that operation
that uh if Epstein gave up the CIA and said, "Oh, you know, uh not only is
Epstein himself doing these illegal underage women things, but the CIA is
part of the operation." Do you think he would throw the CIA under the bus and say, "Yeah, they're
trafficking children." if they were. I'm not saying they were, but if they were,
so I'm not buying um Duruitit's explanation on this. I'm not buying the
explanation that if he was working with the CIA, he would have mentioned it. You would mention it if you were working
with the CIA to spy on Russia, well then you would mention it. Or to get secrets
from China, well then you would definitely mention it to your lawyer. But if the context is, did you do some
of the worst things that the public can imagine, sex trafficking of minors, do
you think that even Epstein would give up the CIA?
Because it seems like they would have to kill him if he did. Well,
and then um I guess I would take some
some factchecking on this next point I'm going to make. Did Dersuit say that
Epstein was not involved with an intelligence entity because he would have told Dersowitz so he could get a
better deal. But would that include if he worked with MSAD?
If if Epstein had worked with MSAD, and I don't know that he did, but if he did,
how would that get him a better plea deal in the United States?
That doesn't seem connected, does it? So, can Dersuit really say, "Well," and
he didn't say this, but could he say, "I know he wasn't working with MSAD or MI6
or the Saudis because he would have mentioned it to be his lawyer so he could get a better deal." How would you
get a better deal if you were working for the intelligence agency of another country?
That would be the opposite of getting a good deal, right?
Yeah. So, I feel like Durowitz is finding some clever ways
to say that Epstein didn't have that uh intelligence contact,
but it doesn't sound believable. So, judge for yourself.
All right. Um, and then Mike Benz, who's also on the case here with the Epstein
story, he notes that there is a normal and routine thing that the press does
and the CIA does when somebody is um alleged to have worked with them.
Apparently, there's a database that you can search for somebody's name to find out if they work for the CIA. Now I
think only the CIA has access to it. But it's fairly routine that people get blamed as being an CIA asset. So the CIA
also doesn't know, you know, at some levels of management, they don't even know who's working there because there's
so many secrets. So, they have a system where if there's something in the news that says some character works for the
CIA, they can type that person's name into their database and then they could make a statement later saying no, he's
not ours. Or if it is theirs, they can say uh no comment.
And uh Mike Benz has some way that he can check to find out that there has
been no name search for Jeffrey Epstein despite it being the main question that's been in the news for years.
And he's having trouble believing that this research was never done because
it's the most routine thing you would do. And since it's such a high-profile case, of course you would do it on this
one. But the evidence is it wasn't done. Why would that be?
Well, we can only think of one reason.
Um Trump was meeting with the crown prince of Bahrain who really looked like he liked Trump. You know, they were
sitting together in the Oval Office and whenever Trump turned to him, he would have this big smile on his face and you
know, he laughed at his jokes and stuff. So, he looks like he's getting along with Trump well, but uh Trump answered
questions about all manner of things. And he said uh that the press should be focusing on Biden and the autopen, not
the Epstein stuff. All right, here's the thing. When Trump tries so hard to tell us that
we should not talk about Epstein, isn't he winking as hard as you can?
Yes, there are secrets there. I know the secrets. I'm not going to tell you. And
I'm not even going to tell you why I can't tell you. Let's just please move on. So when I when I agree with that
strategy of moving on, people say, "Oh, you're covering up for the what are you doing?
You're covering up for the pedos." No, I'm simply saying that if we'll never
know the real answer, we should default to a process you're comfortable with. A
process that I'm comfortable with is that we elected people to make these
decisions for us. And apparently Trump has made the decision for us that we're
not going to see much more even though he's he acts like he's open to it. I
don't think we'll see more. whatever it is that he's uh covering up
and obviously he's covering up something is important and we hired him to make
the important decisions for us. We did not hire him to tell us everything that he knows because there would be lots of
topics where he knows things you're not supposed to know. So,
so that's my summary. If we can't know for sure and we can't,
what's the real story? The only thing you can be comfortable with is who's in charge of deciding if you know. And it's
Trump. I'm comfortable knowing that he's lying.
Can anybody else say the same thing? I know he's lying. He's obviously lying.
It could not be more obvious. it it's so obvious that he's lying that it makes it
feel like he wants us to know he's lying because it's easier for me to move on if
I know he's lying, right? Because if I know he's he said
that he's decided to keep it from me and the and the public, then I say, "Well, that's your decision.
You you get to make that decision and then I'm willing to move on." Would
justice be served? Probably not. Um, Trump also has this new phrase he
uses a lot that the US was considered a dead country before he got in. Nothing
was happening and now it's the hottest country. That is good persuasion. He
says it a lot, so it's really sinking in. So, he's persuading other countries
that might want to invest with the US or get on board with us. He's uh he's he's
persuading them with his hypnosis that uh we're not like we used to be and now
it's you know the US is the place to invest and the one to follow and the one
that's doing all the good stuff and there's some basis for that. So it's not like it's a crazy thing to say. So I
love his persuasion on that from dead to hottest. Uh, let's compare that to one of the
stars of the Democrat party, Stacy Abrams, who is now calling Trump an autocrat.
All right, compare these two persuasions. The US went from a dead
country to the hottest country. Okay, that's just A+
because everybody knows what dead means. Everybody knows what hottest means. And there's there's enough basis that people
could say, "Yeah, I can see that. I I see why you're saying that." But when Stacy Abrams says Trump is an autocrat,
why don't you go do an interview on the street and ask people if they know what an autocrat is? If they do, give them
question number two. Do you know what an oligarch is? Probably not.
Number three, what does it mean to be an authoritarian?
Uh maybe a third of the country knows what that means. What about the Plutocrats? Yeah. What about the
Plutocrats? Why is it that the Democrats have no sense whatsoever of what a regular human
being would be persuaded by? Penrats. That's funny. Autopenrats.
Well, Trump says that Coca-Cola has agreed with his suggestion to make
America healthy again by removing what they were using for sugar and putting in real cane sugar. So, I guess that's for
the non-diet version of Coke. But uh I was not aware
that whatever Coca-Cola was using instead of real cane sugar, I was not
aware that it's dangerous and that real cane sugar would be
healthy. So I don't understand that story at all. But if RFK Jr. agrees that this would
make that drink healthier. All right.
Okay. But I do like when Trump brags about successes because that that feeds
into his we're the hottest country and everything's going right. And I love it when he does that. I love it when Trump
is a salesperson for the country, which is a lot like being a salesperson for
his own um his own administration. He should be doing that and he should be
talking it up like crazy and nobody does it better. He He is the best salesperson
I've ever seen and he's selling the country. He's doing a good job. But meanwhile, in the Palisades where
there was that big fire, um apparently nothing's happening to rebuild
basically. Um rebuilding after the fire is almost nothing. And they're think it
would take four years to get things approved and rebuilt. Four years. and
all of it because California is a bureaucratic red tape woke mess.
Um, apparently there's some real movement on
this Russia collusion hoax investigation that the FBI and I assume the DOJ DOJ
are doing. So, I was reading in Real Clear Investigations,
Paul Sperry was writing that uh there's been meetings and there's new information on Russia gate. Um, new
documents have been released. There's a new secret 200page congressional audit.
Um, I feel like this is looking like something might happen. As in the idea
that the Democrats organized a RICO criminal attempt to lawfare and
uh disgrace Trump and get him out of the uh get him out of the government and get him out of the election. It looks like
that it's all documented. So, you know, unlike the Epstein thing
where there's there's nothing to look at, we just have a lot of assumptions and
speculation. It looks like this whole Russia hoax thing, there's going to be
memos and handwritten memos and a whole chain of command where you can see the
entire um the entire criminal enterprise. So,
I don't know how far this could go, but is there a possibility that Brennan would be put in jail?
There is. Yeah, there is. It would be tough.
I think the odds are way against it, but it's possible. So, if I were John
Brennan, I'd be worried a lot. Um,
we, you know, we get new inflation numbers in the country on a regular basis. Just got some that look kind of
good. But would you be surprised to learn that economists say that our inflation
data is all Does that surprise anybody that the data
that they use to figure out if our prices went up? So, part of it is a a
labor um shortage. So the way they check prices is have a little army of people
call certain places and say what are you charging for this or that and then they compile it. When they don't have the
information they estimate it. They estimate it. How exactly would you
estimate the price of a thing without checking any base source?
You just make it up, right? So, it sounds to me like some of the
inflation numbers are literally just pulled out of somebody's ass. So,
I think the administration in charge probably can make that inflation number just about anything they want. Um,
because it's sort of made up and based on assumptions and stuff. And of course,
what I say when I when we find out that the inflation numbers are probably BS, I
say wait until you find out about the climate models.
Wait until you find out how many estimates are in the climate models.
If you're worried about the inflation numbers not being perfectly accurate, oh, way do you find out about
temperature? Yeah, there are some estimates there.
Um, Zoran Mandani had a meeting with a bunch of uh uh
important business CEOs and uh they were asking him about you
know his use of the phrase globalize the inifat which is taken commonly as a cult of
violence toward Israel and Jewish people. And uh Mandani claimed that for
him the slogan is not uh was not about that violence but it reflects a protest
against what he called the Israeli occupation of Gaza and not an endorsement of violence. So he says
he'll still be in favor of the idea uh of that he's opposed to the
occupation of Gaza as he would call it but he does not endorse anything about
it that is violence. Now remember what I said about
whoever gets to decide what the definition of something is is in charge.
So here is Zoron trying to make us accept his definition of what um
globaliz inifat means. If he can get us to accept that definition,
then he probably has a good chance of getting elected and it looks like he's winning. But
do you do you buy that? How many of you think that um that that phrase is sort
of innocent and it's only talking about the occupation?
It's not really believable. So I don't think that he has the power to redefine that. So it means that at
the moment he's not in charge of you because you still have your own definition and you would be willing to
use it in public if he had to but he's trying to redefine it to get power over
you and so far not successful.
And uh then I was then he was asked about whether he still supports defunding the police, which is something
he had said in the past. And he decided to avoid the question.
Avoid the question. How in the world would all these top CEOs like Jamie
Diamond and, you know, a bunch of people like that, how in the world are they going to back this guy? Well, we don't
know if they will or or not, but um apparently a bunch of outofstate people
are donating to Mom Donny's campaign. He's got 350,000 since his primary win from out of state.
Now, he gets also instate, but that's a lot. And I'm wondering if Republicans are donating to him. Are there any
Republicans who are so Mckavelian that they say to themselves, you know, if we
let the Communist completely destroy New York City,
um the Democrat party will be dead for a generation?
Is there any Republican with enough money that they actually think that? It's
like, well, you know, I don't want to destroy New York City, but they apparently want to destroy themselves.
So, we'll just give them the tools to do it and then nobody will vote for a
Democrat ever again. Maybe. I don't know. Well, Adam Schiff,
who used to say no one is above the law, now says that Trump's attacks on Schiff
are uh more dangerous than ever because it involves the law.
So, Adam Schiff, who apparently broke the law when it came to saying what uh
what was his primary residence because he had two primary residents, which is not a thing. It's illegal.
But he's saying the real problem is Trump's abuse of law,
not the fact that he broke it in the most obvious way, allegedly.
Um, according to the Wall Street Journal, vigilante groups are taking
control of Russia's streets because so many of their police officers have been
shipped to the war. Now, the way the story reads, the reason so many police
officers in Russia have been sent to the uh war is because it pays better to be a
soldier than it does to be a police officer. To which I say, how much more
does it pay that you would go into a meat grinder where you can't walk outside without a drone killing you?
What What police officer would give up their police job to voluntarily go to
the front lines of the Ukraine Russia war that's just grinding up all the
humans? I don't know about this story. I believe the vigilante groups and I believe that
there may be not enough cops, but I don't believe that the cops were mostly
leaving for the high pay of being killed on the front lines. That doesn't seem
doesn't seem likely, does it? All right, people. That's all I got for now. Sorry I went long. I'm going to say
a few words privately to the local subscribers who I call Beloved
and the rest of you. Thanks for joining and I will see you again tomorrow. Same
time, same place. Locals coming at you privately.
Uh, if this