you. It's always good to see you no matter how late you are.
But, uh, we've got a show to do this morning that will be incredible.
Unlike the lazy people who don't do any podcasting on a Sunday, no, I got lots.
Oh, yeah. Settle in. Settle in, people. We got a lot of stuff.
Oh, hello Solaris.
That's not cool. Uh, only Paul can do the uh the audio
video thing. Otherwise, otherwise I won't know where it's coming from. So,
so Lars and the rest of you, let Paul do that and nobody else. Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization. It's
called Coffee with Scott Adams because that's what it is and it's the best thing that's ever happened to you.
But if you'd like to take a chance of bringing this experience up to levels
that no one can even understand with their tiny shiny human brains. All you
need for that is is
a copper bug or a glass, a tanker, gel sign, a canteen jug or flask, a vessel
of any kind. Fill it with your favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now
for the unparalleled pleasure. The dopamine hit of the day, the thing that makes everything better. It's called the
simultaneous sip. Happens now. Go.
Oh, so good. So good.
All right. Well, I wonder is there any scientific study that uh
maybe they could have saved a little time on, save a little money by just
asking me, "Oh, here's one." According to the public library of
science, uh they there's a study that was done that shows that emoji use may
improve relationship outcomes. That's right. If you use emojis, it will
improve your relationship outcomes. Uh
that's why people use them.
That's why emojis have never been a fad. Have you ever noticed that? They're not
really a fad because they work and every single person who has used one is completely
aware that it helps, you know, lubricate the social interaction. So, yeah,
they could have uh saved a little bit of money. the University of Texas at Austin. I guess that's where they did
the study. Uh, anything else? Let's see. According to Psychology Today, uh, the
couples who have frequent sex report greater relationship and life satisfaction.
Huh? Now, now maybe I'm not the only one who
can do this miraculous task of saving money on studies, but let's see how many
of you would have guessed that couples who have frequent sex uh
have better relationships than people who don't. I'll bet you would have gotten that one.
Yeah, we didn't need to do that study. Next time, just ask God or anyone else
in the world or any living human adult
could have saved you a little time there. Well, if you were subscribing to the
Dilbert comic, which is a little spicier than it used to be because it's only for
subscribers, behind the payw wall on either locals.com or here on X, if
you're watching on X, uh you would know that Ashook, the intern is being
deported to uh Albonia, even though he has no connection to Albonia, but he
will get due process. you will get due process. Uh the due process will happen
at Alligator Alcatraz. So that's what you're missing. That's
today's Sunday comic. Shook is getting deported. Anyway,
um Grock has been now officially updated and uh it's being called Super Grock and
I decided to do a little test on Super Grock. Yep, there it is. Um, and uh, the
test was there was a little mystery that I'd been having that was making me feel
like I might be insane. Have you heard Elon Musk? He's he said
this a number of times on X. He said, "The most entertaining outcome is the most likely." How many of you have seen
Elon Musk say that? He said it again today. So he retweeted his earlier time
he said it. And every time I see that I would say to myself,
why does that look so familiar? And then I would start to think, oh,
wait a minute, didn't I invent that? Isn't that something I said?
And uh apparently he he gets credit for, you know, being the inventor of that
saying. So, I thought, well, let's give Super Grock a test because actually I
was wondering if I was insane. I I actually thought, am I losing it?
Like, have I lost the ability to tell what came out of my mouth versus what I
read on X? And really, I was I was wondering if I lost it. And I thought,
am I just being like the weird narcissistic crazy person who's just now
hallucinating like an LLM? And so I asked what what was the
earliest that uh I think I asked Super Grock.
Um when was the first time I said it? And apparently
um it was the very first thing I ever said about politics.
Do you how many of you remember in 2015 I wrote a v blog post called clown
genius and it was a reframe of Trump from being this you know clown who was
running for president. Nobody took him seriously. And I wrote that viral blog
post called Clown Genius in which I explained, "Oh, you have no idea what's
coming. Th this is not this is not a clown.
This is a clown genius and he knows how to use all of these tools." And uh I
predicted he would become your next president. That was 2015. According to
Super Grock, uh, and I'd forgotten this entirely that
in that 2015 blog post, I wrote, quote, "When it comes to politics, the most
entertaining outcome is the most likely. Trump is the clown genius who knows it."
So, that's the first time I said it. And it was also the first time I ever it was the first thing I ever said about
politics that anybody paid attention to. But it turns out
also according to Super Grock that I said it again
um well I said it a number of times on live streams but Super Grock doesn't have access to this. Um but it was also
in my book Win Bigley that came out in 2017.
Um, but if you go to the internet, uh, the quote will be attributed to Elon
Musk in 2023. So,
Super Grock for the win. And I'm not crazy. Yes. Yes, I'm not crazy.
Thank God. All right. Um, Laura Trump, married to
Eric Trump, um, just was part of a video showing a bunch of, uh, US service
members doing a workout outdoors with Pete Tagsath, who likes to do workouts
with the troops. and Laura Trump joined the workouts
and it was a serious badass workout with weights that they had to lift and put on
their shoulders and run around with the weights and stuff. And if you if you
have never seen uh Lara Trump do her workout, if the only place you've ever
seen her is as a talking head, you're really missing something impressive.
I follow her on Instagram because she does a lot of her workout videos there.
Oh my god, she she is a workout beast and I say that with a complimentary
um overtone. She is really really fit for a man or a woman. I mean, she's just
really fit. Um, and I can't think of another woman off the
top of my head who would be able to do the same workout as the as the male
troops and as Pete Hexath. But I'd like to compliment
whoever came up with that idea, whoever said, "Hey, why don't you work out with
the troops and we'll take a video of it." Brilliant. It was brilliant because
I really like seeing Pagathth work out with the troops that it's just a good
look and it makes him look young and that helps. But it does the same thing for Laura Trump. You know, it humanizes
her but also it's impressive. It's impressive as hell. And uh she might run
for the Senate in North Carolina. So I suspect there might be some attention
being given to, you know, framing her just right so she keeps that option open. So this was brilliant. It was just
brilliant. And it's probably not a coincidence that the news is telling us that Air Force and Space Force have both
met their recruitment goals three months early. Now, I've got a feeling that that's
mostly because of Trump bringing respect back to the military, but I feel like
the P Hegsath appointment probably helps because it
youngs down the whole situation and you add Laura to it. It's just a
great look, you know, for both the service as well as those individuals.
All right. Well, did you know that there are a bunch of protests in Mexico City
right now? Some of them got violent. And do you have any idea why the uh local
Mexican population in Mexico City is protesting and throwing rocks through
store windows and stuff? If if you haven't followed that story,
what would be your first guess about why the local Mexican population is so mad?
First guess would be they don't like the cartels, right? Which it's not that.
It's not that. Second guess would be something about economics.
Well, it is, but the specific complaint is that too many white people from
America have gone down there and started to live there. It's about immigration.
I'm not making that up. I swear that's the actual news that the Mexican locals
are really really mad about all the immigration from from America because
what it does is it snaps up all their real estate and I guess their rental
prices have gone up 20% and maybe some other prices but but rent in particular
uh is is sharply up because the the Americans are increasing the demand
So, I don't have much to say about that except that what a weird world it is
that both Mexico and the United States are complaining about the bad elements that were sending to the other.
Anyway, so my question is this. Are the Mexican um protests grassroots?
Do you think that people spontaneously organized and they just thought, you know, you you you've got a problem with
it and I've got a problem. Let's call some of our friends and protest this thing. Nope. I do not believe that we
live in that world. I believe that all mass protests are organized by shadowy
figures in the background. I don't believe any of them are organic. I used
to and maybe they used to be. I don't know. But in today's world, no. None of
these are real. They are all manufactured protests.
Once you learn that, it it kind of changes everything. I I will go further
and say, well, I've got a few other stories coming up that maybe I'll save
this point for, but just remember I said that I don't believe this protest is
genuine. Well, I saw a post by a ex user Indra
vahan on X um saying uh this about AI.
Some intern at McKenzie is probably slop coding a report on this, but let me give
you an insider uh some insider news. Most large corporations are not happy
with the agentic systems and PC's they've done this year. POC, it's not
people of color. It'll be some kind of project with AI, I guess. Um, 2025 was supposed to be the
year of agents, meaning AI agents that can do your work. So far, it's been the
year of letdowns. All right. So, you, if you've been watching my live
streams, you know that I've been an AI skeptic for quite a while. Um, and
especially since was it two years ago or one year ago that I tried using it
myself and I put a lot of work into it to try to build a little agent out of AI
that would be able to answer simple questions about me. So I could put it on my website and any question that
somebody would ask me, it would know the answer to it and it would just read my file to see all my answers and it would
just answer it. couldn't do it. Not only could it not do it, but there's no workaround.
There's no workaround. There's no way to solve it. And I said to myself, huh, if
this is a limitation of AI, uh, its value is going to be very
limited. Now, it's way too early. So, uh, if you
want to be an NPC, what you would say is, "Scott, I'm an NPC, and I want to
tell you that you are analyzing a new technology when it's so new that we
don't know how good it will be. And someday it will be super intelligent and
be able to do everything you want cuz I'm an NPC and I didn't think you would know that." No, everybody knows that,
NPC. Everybody knows that AI could get a
lot better. However, um there's there's a lot of skepticism
that's uh starting to get in there. And uh I saw another post by Suzanne Burn of
the BBC who's talking about a woman who says that she gets paid to fix issues caused
by AI. So she's an official u marketer writer kind of person and she's been
contacted by agencies etc to look at things that were created with AI such as
marketing content and website content and they're just horrified by what AI
did because it's so boring and antiseptic that it just doesn't work. So
she and other people she knows are being hired as human beings to go rewrite what
people thought they could get away with using AI for. So, if you ever thought
the AI would replace human experts at writing,
maybe because the NPCs will tell you that it's only in the beginning of the
AI technology curve and it might get a lot better later than it might, but at
the moment, humans are correcting AI, not the other way around in some domains. Now AI is
very useful it seems in coding and uh you know chatting so it's really
good at those things but beyond that well we'll see
and then uh I saw a post by uh Chimath Palahatia
you might know him from the all-in pod or from his uh his work early on with
Facebook where he made a ton of money now he's a investor and podcaster.
But he said every large company has paid for something called AI so they can
report up to the CEO and board of directors that they are quote on top of it.
But little but little is working in production or at high quality. Chat and
code generation as I just said are the two exceptions.
And then Chamas says the reality is that it is still quite difficult for companies to get high quality
predictable code into production that is AIcentric and replaces legacy features. New
capabilities are equally difficult to build and launch. So he's saying the
same thing that we're seeing, but he's a lot smarter and more connected to that world. Um, but again, let me bring in
the NPC. Well, Scott, it's so early in the AI technology development cycle.
It's too early to say it doesn't work. Well, yes, you're right. So, one of the
things that Jimoth is recommending is looks like a company he's investor owner
in software factory. So I don't know the details but uh it's
uh it's basically a fix for what ails you on AI. So I'm not recommending it or
not recommending it because I don't know enough about it. But one of the things that I warned you about is that we may
never get to the point where somebody like me can just take an AI and go do
something awesome. It may always require that you're using other software on top of it and you
would have to be an expert in the other software or you know have a subscription to it. And as soon as you get that
second piece of software involved, I'm out. I I wouldn't be out if I were working
for a big corporation because it would just be my job. All right. Take these pieces of software, add them to the AI,
make it all work. But if you just wanted to do something
awesome with AI on the side or like a little project, no, you know, adding a
second piece of software just feels like it's a little bit more than the average
person is going to take on. It's more of an engineer kind of a thing. Well,
um, but also Chamass's original, uh, filter on this is very similar to the
Dilbur filter. So, you hear me talk about this all the time. Um, I look at
news stories and what's happening in the real world and I say, "All right, what
would that look like if Dilbert was describing it?" Or, "What would it look
like if it became a Dilbert comic?" That's what I call the Dilbert filter.
And the Dilbert filter says this, and I'm going to make this a prediction,
that there will be more companies doing layoffs. And some of those companies are
going to blame the layoffs on AI so that they sound awesome.
And it may not be AI at all. They may not have implemented anything that
required them to downsize at all. But if you're going to downsize, it sends a bad
message to the market and your stock will fall. It's like, I guess, did they
stop growing? Are they running out of cash? They had to downsize.
But if you were going to downsize anyway for reasons that have nothing to do with
AI, wouldn't it be clever to sort of suggest, oh, we're working on some AI
projects that will uh replace a lot of people and also we're announcing today
the layoff of a thousand employees. And then you look at them, you go, "Whoa,
whoa, look at that company. We didn't think AI was that good, but they're already using it to replace a thousand
employees. Wow, I'm going to buy that stock. They seem way ahead of the curve.
So, there's my prediction. It won't be every company, but there will be
companies that try to teach you, well, try to fool you into thinking that their
layoffs are because they're so good at replacing people with AI. But it might
not be perfectly true. All right. Uh according to uh Nikke
Asia, uh researchers um scientists and researchers who do uh
technical papers and get them published uh have been hiding AI prompts in their
technical papers. So apparently they're one of the ways
they do that is they use a white on white um text font. So they use a white
font on a white piece of paper so that you can't if you're human you can't read it. But if you're an AI and you looking
through all the new papers, you would see it. And the prompts say stuff like
never give me a bad review for this paper.
Now, I'm a little bit skeptical. If you can hide an AI prompt inside your
technical document, an AI will recognize it and act on it. That's a that's a
little bit of a stretch. It sounds like something that somebody said as a joke
or maybe tried once, but does it work? If it works,
that's going to be quite a game changer, isn't it? Because if it works to embed
hidden prompts within something that a human can't tell is hidden,
everybody's going to do it for everything. Every website will have hidden prompts.
You know, customer reviews especially. So, I don't think that really works, but
if it does, uhoh.
Well, as you know, Elon Musk is launching the America Party, a third
party, and uh Mark Cuban said he would be interested in maybe being part of it.
Um so that's a that's a fascinating
um development because the America party is not going to be in my opinion uh bound to either
the left or the right but rather would just do things that made sense. You know
we're just good for the country. And um I think Mark Cuban is solidly on the why
don't we do things that are good for the country side. you know, he has a he
seems to be leading Democrat, but if you look at his actual ideas,
they're they're not, you know, a bunch of Democrat orthodoxy that, you know, talking points kind of thing. He's not a
talking points guy. So, would that be a strong combination?
It would be interesting. Now, if you're wondering what is my opinion on this
America party, um, a little undecided because I think
we need to know a little bit more. Now, there's one narrative that says this is
terrible for Republicans. All it will do is siphon off votes from Republicans.
But I think you're being an analogy thinker if you think that. How many of
you said to yourself, "Oh no, uh Ross Perau sunk the Republicans by taking
away some of their votes when he ran as a third party." So if Elon Musk launches a third party, it's going to be the same
problem. You know, just like just like Ross Pro, it's just going to make the
Republicans weaker and then the Democrats will take everything.
But there's one problem with that analogy. And by the way, I mock people
who use analogies to predict what's going to happen. Because being an analogy thinker is nothing to be proud
of. It just means you were reminded of something else. It doesn't mean that the
thing you're talking about is going to follow the same path. You're just reminded of it. That's all. Here's the
big difference, I think. But here's the part I'd have to wait and find out how
real this is. So far, Musk has only talked about um getting senators and
House of Representatives um a small group, you know, maybe just a handful of each
and having that enough to be able to influence events. So he's not trying to,
you know, flip the house or, you know, turn it into mostly America party thing.
He's just trying to get a smallish group of like-minded people who are just more
America first than they are wed to any political ideology and uh see if he can
influence things in a positive way. Now, so far he has not made mention of
running a presidential candidate. If he did run a presidential candidate, then
yes, that's a Ross Perau problem. So, do we agree if he runs a
presidential candidate, which he has not indicated he would, he's not indicated
that, but if he did, that would be a problem. And I think I would immediately
flip to, oh, this is no good. So, which is also probably the reason he's not mentioning it because probably
he's fully aware that it's no good. It wouldn't work in his interests.
But does it make sense to have a smalish group of people who are just dedicated
to doing what's good for the country and have them part of Congress? It might.
And if you've got a, you know, a Mark Cuban and maybe some other smart people will will also go independent. You never
know. It might be a little bit of a, you know, follow the leader kind of thing happening soon.
Um, so I'm going to stay open-minded. To me, it looks like something that
could be helpful to whoever is president because it could maybe allow them to get
things that even they think are good ideas, but they know they couldn't sell to their own base.
So a lot of it depends on whether you think that Musk himself wants what's good for
the country but he also has you know big corporate interests and some of them you know have
government subsidies and so you can't completely untangle him from self-interest and fiduciary
responsibility to his companies but it's all public you know it's all
transparent so you would get to see what he promotes and why. Make up your
own mind. So, I'm going to be open-minded on this. We will see how it develops.
Um, I saw an account called Tesla owners SV who was speculating on what the
America party would focus on. Now, this is not coming from Elon Musk. It's
coming from somebody who's just a a watcher of all things Tesla, I think.
But when I read the list, I said to myself, "Yeah, that's probably pretty close." So if we're going to speculate,
and this is just speculation of what an America first or what America's party
would focus on, it would be reducing debt and responsible spending. Probably
modernize the military with AI and robotics, probably.
um pro pro technology and make sure that we're we're in it to win it with AI.
That's almost everybody really. Less regulation across the board, but especially in energy, probably. Uh free
speech, yes. Pro-natalist, meaning more babies,
probably. You know, because those would be things that in my opinion are unambiguously good for the country. And
if you said to me, "But Scott, these are mostly Republican things." I would say,
"Well, maybe it looks that way, but there's nothing really Republican or
non-Republican about free speech. You know, most of these are just strong
ideas. How about controlling our spending? Who's against that?" And then
uh centrist policies. So that's kind of generic. So remember, this is not Elon
Musk. This is just somebody's opinion of what that party would look like. And uh
looks about right to me. Tucker Carlson has announced he's uh I
guess he's already interviewed the president of Iran and he hasn't edited it yet so it's not available but he's
warning us because he knows it's going to be controversial and people are going
to say oh are you talking to Iran because you hate Israel and you're anti-semite.
That's what they will say instead of what they should say, which is anybody in Tucker Carlson's position
who interviews important people on important subjects would want to talk to the president of Iran. I would if I were
him. So, I'm uh 100% in favor of Tucker Carlson talking to the president, not
the supreme leader. And this is important. not the supreme leader, but the president. Um, and uh,
that'll be very interesting. I'll be watching that.
All right. Uh, here's some, uh, sort of fake news. So, Trump in one of his
rallies the other day, he referred to the bankers, some of the bankers as shillocks.
And um that caused a controversy cuz people say hey that's anti-semitic.
Now how many of you this will be a little survey instant survey for the chatters. How many of you would have
been aware before the news told you that the word shillock
is something used as a negative for Jewish bankers in particular. I guess it
comes from uh The Merchant of Venice, a Shakespeare play in which it was used to
refer to a Jewish character or characters. How many of you knew that?
I'm looking at your list. So, lots of yeses, but also lots of nos.
Um, I would have been vaguely aware that I wouldn't I shouldn't use the word
myself. So, I would have been aware of that, but I didn't know where it came from and I
would not necessarily have known the, you know, the connection to it. I would never use the word because part of my
brain had a little flag on it. You know, there was like a little red flag. When I
think of the word, I just see the little red flag waving and I don't know where it came from. So, at some point in my
life, I must have known that was a word you don't use. Uh Trump says he was not aware of, you
know, it had any anti-semitic element to it. And I believe him because
there's no way he would have used it in a public event if he knew what some
people apparently did know that it's associated with a anti-semitic
kind of a reputation destroying kind of a kind of a thing. Um but
did you think that the Democrats would leave that alone after he said, "Oh, I didn't know that." No. They took out the
designated liars. Remember I tell you the designated liars are the the
Democrats they send out to talk when there's some lie they need to tell. But
ordinary Democrats would say that's too far for me.
I I can't tell that lie in public. So they sent out the designated liars. So
that would include I guess Eric Swallwell, Dan Goldman, and Jerry Nadler.
They all came out immediately to condemn the mark remarks as blatant and vile
anti-semitism. And then if you wanted to know how high
the credibility is, the uh the disgraced ADL also called it very troubling and
irresponsible. Now, if you don't know, the ATL is a
disgraced organization that uh probably had a, you know, a good purpose for
existing at one point. I don't know the history of it, but at the moment, it's
more of a it's more the Eric Swallwell of organizations, if you know what I
mean. It's more the Jerry Nadler of
It's more of a Democrat hit piece uh organization. They came after me as
well. The ADL blamed me of being a Holocaust denier. That was the head of
the ADL. Said that in public in public. Actually said that about me by name.
So that's how much credibility they have. So no for the NPCs. No, I'm not a
Holocaust denier. Uh that would be ridiculous.
Anyway, um apparently the bricks people are having a summit and I went to Subro
and said, "Explain what the bricks is." I mean, I knew sort of what it is, but I
wanted to see if there was something I didn't know about it. And so Brex is a coalition of 10 emerging economies.
Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, Indonesia, and UAE. And they're focused
on economic cooperation as sort of a a
response to the fact that the US and Europe have too much economic clout. So,
they're trying to form their own, you know, power block uh for their self-interest, which makes
sense, and maybe to um try to get away from the dollar being the uh most
important currency because that's good for the United States, but maybe not as
good for them. So, at the moment, I think uh Trump has threatened them to
drop their idea of having their own currency. and to continue using the dollar. So
threats work. I think the threats were tariff threats, but they worked. But uh
I guess Putin is not attending and President Xi is not attending and Iran
of course can't send the top guy so they send medium level guy. So the uh
one source I saw I saw this in a Mario no post that Gazetta Deovo
basically is is saying it's a failed organization because if you can't get the superstars
to go to it, you also can't make any decisions. So all they're going to do is have breakouts and talk about the
weather and climate change and go home. There there won't be anything that comes out of it.
So, don't worry about the bricks, at least while Trump's president.
Um, here's a uh new suggestion
for handling the Palestinian situation that comes from some a group of shakes
um as in sh ei kh shakes
and they had an idea. Joel Pollock is writing about this in Brebar and Wall Street Journal has an article on it too.
Um that they they want to create an emirate in the holy city of Hebrron.
Now Hebron is part of the West Bank in the south. So it would be the area that
you know Palestinians would think would create a state. But if it's too hard to
have a two-state solution, this might be an interesting workaround.
And I went to Super Grock and said, "What's an emirate?"
How many of you know what an emirate is? Most of you. All right. Well, an emirate
is something that's ruled by an amir. And an amir might be sort of a dictator
but not necessarily. Um it would be you know some Islamic person who's in charge
and they would run it as a sort of an independent entity but not a country. So
it wouldn't necessarily be a country it would be an independent managed entity.
Now, uh, did you know that the UAE
is a bunch of emirates? So, you could think of them sort of like states
um, depending on how it's organized. So, there's a there's a lot of flexibility on how the emirate could be ruled and
what it is. So, there are already existing and very successful emirates in
the Middle East. So it has a precedent. We know how they work. U but what it
would do is it would take uh power and attention away from the Palestinian Authority.
And it might be something that the Palestinians themselves, you'd have to
probably do more than one emirate, but it's something that the Palestinians themselves
might be willing to say, "Oh, well, it's not a state, but we're not going to get
a two-state solution anyway, you know, because Israel is not in favor of that at the moment." So, what is the second
best thing we can do? Emirates. So, I do not have an opinion whether
it's a good idea or a bad idea or who it would be good or bad for, but I've never
heard it before. And so maybe, yeah, may maybe there's something
to work with here. I don't know. Um, so the UAE has seven emirates in it
and they seem to be doing fine. Um, meanwhile over at CBS News, so you
knew that Trump sued CBS because of the way they edited the Kla Harris
interview. And it looks like he got paid maybe, it's unconfirmed, but $16 million
for winning that lawsuit or settled. He didn't win it. It was settled. And uh, I
learned some new things about that. uh New York Post article by Charles Gasperino.
Did you know that the company that wants to buy the CBS parent company called
Paramount? Uh did you know that that was uh
uh what is the name of it? It doesn't matter. So, but it's a studio
that was uh run and owned by Larry Ellison's son. So Larry Ellison's son is
one who's looking to buy Paramount and CBS.
Apparently um when Sherry Redstone um got control of uh her company, it was
worth $40 billion. Now the whole thing's only worth two billion.
Imagine taking your husband's fortune from 40 billion down to two billion.
Ouch. That's what she did. So, she's looking to sell out and and rest under
two billion. Um, but CBS News is almost certainly not profitable. We don't know
for sure because those numbers are not broken out. But if Larry Ellison uh
Larry Ellison's son is apparently a proTrumper just like Larry Ellison is
and uh that would put CBS in the firm control of somebody who likes Trump.
Didn't see that coming. For some reason I was not aware of that that that would be coming.
Anyway, Larry Ellison's uh company uh produced Top Gun Maverick and Mission
Impossible, the new one. So, they really got it going on there. So, we'll see
what what happens with CBS News. Uh Trump's sending out his tariff
letters telling people that some of their tariffs will be as high as 70%.
Um, which I interpret as really just rattling their cages so they'll try
harder to make a trade deal that's better for them and uh not bad for us.
So, I think that's just a smart Trump approach to say if you were not serious
enough to get this deal done in the period that we said we needed a trade deal done, then we don't need to. We'll
just send you the bill and you can live with these crushing tariffs if you like.
If you like. Anyway, um,
have you noticed that the big beautiful bill is full of stuff that is so hard to
understand, you can't even tell if it's good for you or bad? I don't know how many of the elements
fit into that category, but one of them is the salt deductions.
All right. How many of you, if I went in the street and stopped people randomly,
adults, and said, "Do you know what the salt deduction is?" How many people
would even know what that is? So salt stands for state and local taxes, which
uh used to be deductible, so you could deduct it from your income before you did the federal taxes that
you owed. And that changed um that went away because,
you know, Trump didn't want blue states to have this extra advantage. And it was it was asking red states to sort of
subsidize blue states because only the the blue states had these high uh high
taxes. Anyway, um the salt deductions were put
back in, but they have a cap, but they also phase out,
but they also have income limits. And if you have an S corporation, you
might have a workaround. So, I'm reading this and saying to myself, I don't even know if I'm making
money or, you know, I live in a blue state, so in theory, it should be to my benefit. I
can't tell. How many how many variables are you going to put on this? There's a income
cap. There's a phase out. There's income limits. If you have an esco, I mean, come on.
Lawyers write this stuff. And uh you can't even tell if it's good or bad.
All right. Yesterday, I asked on X and we talked about a little bit. What is it
that Democrats are seeing or feeling when they say and they look like they're
being honest but emotional when they think they're living in a Trump hellscape of authoritarianism?
And I asked, "What exactly are you experiencing that I'm not experiencing?"
Because to me, every day I wake up is a lot like the day before. And I didn't
see any hellscape. What am I missing? And uh so it turns out I got a lot of
feedback in the comments and it turns out that there are a lot of American citizens who believe that they
personally or their family members who are also American citizens could be deported. And I'm not talking about
people who were born into other countries and got their citizenship. I'm talking about people who have been here
for five generations are still afraid that Trump will deport them because
they're maybe not Republicans or something. Can you believe that?
That a fairly widespread belief that they could be deported or somebody they
love could be deported who's a legal citizen. So, that's part of it.
Um, I heard that university scientists um are unhappy because their funding got
cut. Well, that's true. But as a total percentage of the entire population of
the United States, how big is the university, which is really just Ivy League, how big
is the Ivy League university scientist pool? Now, you could argue whether it's good
or bad that they lose their funding, but it's not a lot of people, right? And if they were already Harvard scientists,
can you not get another job? You don't have good employment
opportunities. There's nobody who's willing to fund you. Your ideas are so bad that nobody's willing to put any
money into it. There's no corporation that would benefit from it. What exactly are they studying that has so little
value that they would worry about losing a university grant? I don't know. U then
there are a bunch of people who believe they'll lose their health insurance when in fact uh a smalish number will.
But it's the people who shouldn't have been getting it in the first place. And you could argue whether that's humane or
not. It feels worse because there's people who are getting it and then it will be
taken away if they don't meet the work requirement or they're not citizens.
But if you had never given it to them in the first place, if there had never been a rule that said uh you don't have to be
a citizen, you can still get it. If they had never existed, would it seem cruel
to continue without it existing? Well, to some people it would, but to
others it would be like, well, you can't give everything you have to everybody who needs it. You know, the math doesn't
work out. Anyway, um,
uh, on another topic, uh, MSNBC seems to go pretty hard to RFK Jr. and
they like calling him a science denier of some sort, and they believe that he
says nutty things that have been debunked. So they smear him as a misinformation
peddler. And I'm wondering is that is that because that's the opinion of the
hosts of MSNBC or might it be because they give
financing uh or they get uh part of their income is from big pharma advertising on their
platform. So, can you trust anything that TV news says
about RFK Jr. when the entire model of pharma advertising
seems to be designed to influence how the news tells the news about big
pharma? So, that's a little sketchy. So, is big
pharma um trying to influence the news to take out RFK Jr.
That's what it looks like. I don't have any evidence that would connect them directly. But since I don't believe any
big movements are natural or organic, everything seems to be driven by some
money person in the background. It feels like it just feels like
maybe big pharma has decided to go after him. And the way they do that is by influencing the news.
maybe what I'd worry about. Uh anyway, um and RFK Jr. has been
saying provocatively that one in 31 children born today are autistic and
he's got this massive study going on and he says they're going to find out what causes it. Now, at different times or
maybe even now, I don't know, um a lot of people including RFK Jr. have
believed that it might be because of uh some
vaccinations or combination of vaccinations etc. But that I guess that link has not been conclusively proven.
So it was worthy of a big study to find out what the real problem is which still
might be that but they haven't done a properly you know a proper study on it till now.
So, in September, we're going to find out. Now, it might involve food.
It's entirely possible that something we eat or it could be something in the
environment like sniffing too much lead or I don't know, your parents use their
phones too much or something. But at least he's open to whatever cause, you
know, any cause that they could uh find. Um,
and then I say, and this is either related or unrelated, you decide. Have
you heard this claim that if you own a cat, you have a very high chance, I think 60%
of cat owners have been infected by something that lives in cats called the
Tig Gandi infection. And it's something that doesn't affect the cat, but if the human gets it, which
apparently most of cat owners get it, uh, it affects their brain. And there's
a two times odds of getting schizophrenia if you're a cat owner.
Schizophrenia. Now, that is some serious stuff. Now,
what question do I always ask? You know the question. Is it that owning a cat turns you into a
schizophrenic? Or or is it possible that if you're
schizophrenic, you don't have regular friends and you need a cat friend to keep you company?
Well, the article I read about it was pretty pretty open that it could go
either way, but they have tested the causation.
And what they can test is people who own cats before they had a diagnosis
because I guess the schizophrenia seems to kick in later in life.
So there is some indication that it's more far more likely that owning the cat
and catching the tea gandai infection is what causes you at least some people to
become schizophrenic. Now if owning a cat
can make some people schizophrenic, could it
make you autistic? could it? Or or is it possible that it's
neither food nor pharma nor vaccinations that are making people autistic and that
the real cause is something where you'd never even think to look like your cat.
So, one of the things I worry about is that the RFK Jr. study is going to come
back without a conclusive answer because it might not be as obvious as we assume
it is. Could be, you know, could be something from left field. You never know.
Anyway, um I saw a post on X by Cynical Publius
who said, "Just a reminder, the Trump Trump Russia collusion hoax was the
worst criminal political scandal in US history, and nothing else even comes
close." Watergate, by comparison, was a third greater shoplifting a bag of gummy
bears from a 7-Eleven. Yet literally no one has been held to account.
Now some of that I think is because the slow trickle of how we found out the
truth that the Russia collusion thing was a hoax. But the latest
the latest trickle is that uh Brennan and Clapper
um and I guess Comey absolutely were
aware that they were using um sketchy information and creating a hoax to to
basically change the government. And none of them, as far as I know, none of
them are in jail. Right? How do you not go to jail for that of all things?
And at the same time, I say to myself, but but but but Scott, I say to myself,
um this is unprecedented. It's totally unprecedented that public
figures or some public, you know, public organizations would be behind an overthrow of the
government and yet nobody would go to jail for it. How could that possibly
ever happen? Oh, there's some newly declassified
documents revealing that a CIA officer had contact with Lee Harvey Oswald
before the assassination of JFK. uh contradicting decades of agency
denials. So apparently a CIA officer George
Nidius uh oversaw a covert anti-Castro group. This is from the AF post. They're
writing about this and that uh he had a conversation with the guy who allegedly
shot Kennedy. So, is it possible that the normal way the
country works is that there are shadowing groups overthrowing the
president on a regular basis and we never prosecuted anybody for it?
Yes, that's possible. So, not only is it possible that Kennedy
was killed by an inside government plot,
we watched plotters try to take down Trump. More than once, probably.
Probably more than once. So, I'm starting to believe that every major story that I've
experienced in my lifetime is untrue. Some of the facts would be true. For
example, it does seem to be a fact that airplanes hit the 911 or hit the Twin
Towers. But do we know why? Do we know who
completely behind it? Maybe we'll find out in 40 years.
I don't think that our wars are really explained to us truthfully. I don't
think that any of the big events, I don't think that any of the protests, I don't think that Black Lives Matter was
organic. I don't think any of the big stories are real. Maybe not ever in my
life. It's entirely possible that every big big story has been fake for every day
that I've been alive and maybe always. Yeah. the the moonlanding.
My favorite moonlanding conspiracy theory
is uh that it was filmed on a you know set, but uh Stanley Kubri specifically
was behind the filming of it. And I'm not saying I believe it. I'm
just saying that as soon as you imagine that the most likely way that world is
organized is that all the big stories are fake. If you accept that,
then the moon landing just fits right in there. But I don't personally, you know, have
enough insight into the moon landing to say that it's fake. I'm just saying if
it's true that all the big stories are fake, what are the odds that what are the odds that that one is real?
You know what I mean? So, I'm not going to go uh give full
conspiracy theory on that. I'm just saying if all the other big stories look
suspicious, and they do, would that be the one that was true?
Maybe. can't rule it out, but maybe.
Anyway, uh Charlie Kirk and probably some others uh are now trying to
encourage uh mayoral candidate Curtis Siwa
uh to drop out. So, he's running as a Republican and would of course get all
the Republican votes because were most of because there aren't that many Republicans voting in New York City. But
if he stays in, he would make it harder for Eric Adams to win running as an
independent. And it might guarantee that um Zoran
Mani, the uh creepy smiling communist, gets elected.
So what do you think about that? Should Curry Leewa step down just so that they
can make sure that M Donnie doesn't get elected? I don't know. Um it's worth that's worth
the conversation. Oh, I hate saying that. I'm going to reward that. That's
worth considering. So, I don't know if Curtis Leewa is enough of a team player that he would go
for that, but he does seem to have a uh a lifetime of service. I mean, he's a
guardian angel founder, right? So, he has a lifetime of service to the city. And if he's more serviceoriented than
politically oriented, and he might be, it would be one hell of a service. So
New York City would would be forever in his debt if he kept that Republican
nomination sort of in his control and then threw
all his votes to let's say Eric Adams. So maybe,
but you may have heard that the New York Times is getting some backlash cuz they did a story about Mom Donnie's uh
college application to Colombia in which, let's see if I can get this
right. um when he filled out his application to college, Colombia in
particular, he uh checked the back the box that said he was um
Asian and African, but he also checked the boxes for Asian,
but also black or African-American. So
some people say, "Well, you despicable liar. You lied and said you were black
so that you could get into Colombia." Now, I have a few observations about
this. Number one observation, it pains me to say this
like like it hurts me at my chest, but I have to be consistent with what I've
said in the past. because I don't like well I don't like opinions that are just
completely inconsistent. So you may remember that I've said in the past that we should not hold against
any adult mistakes they made in college. Anybody remember me saying that? I've
said it publicly a number of times. It's just too far back. I mean before the age
of 25, your brain isn't even done. And I would not want to be blamed for anything
I did in college. And I don't know anybody who would you're not exactly the
same person as you were when you were college age. And remember this is when he was applying.
So when he was applying I don't even know if he was 18 yet. I mean I don't know the details but was he 17
when he checked those boxes? Probably right he was certainly in that
under 25 range. So, separately, I've also said we should have a 20 year rule. Um, I don't know if
he's 20 years out from it, but it might it might be that both apply. I don't
blame people for, you know, their smaller transgressions 20 years ago, and
I don't blame anybody for anything they did when they were 17 or 18. So, college
age, not interested. It's a fun story,
you know. I I like I like talking about it and thinking about it. It's just sort of a fun interesting little story. But
no, th this isn't really the unfortunately I just can't drive a steak
through his heart because of that. I would be inconsistent. However, I'd like to uh steal an idea
that uh I heard this morning. I won't I won't uh do an attribution, but it
wasn't my idea. Uh, all right. I'll tell you it was Greg Guffelt.
So, Greg, if you're listening, uh, I wasn't sure if you wanted credit for this idea, but I'll give it to you
anyway. Um, does it seem interesting to you
that, uh, Mandani tried to pretend he was black so he
could get more advantages in society? Has anybody mentioned that yet?
that pretending you're black gives you such a substantial lift in getting into
college that uh mom daddy was willing to lie
and sort of suggest that he was black because of the benefits.
Yeah. I I think that's a pretty interesting part of the story, isn't it? Because I
believe that there's literally no black person who ever pretended they were white to get into college ever. I
believe that there's no black person who ever pretended to be white to get a job
at a Fortune 500 company. Not in my lifetime. Because in either
case, getting into college or getting into a corporation, small companies would be different. I think there's
plenty of discrimination in small companies, but for the big ones,
everybody knows that it's just a it's it's like a direct path to the top if
you can sell yourself as as being black or female or lesbian or whatever. So, I
don't know how we're we're in this world where black people are claiming a disadvantage at exactly the same time
people are pretending to be black for the advantages.
All right. Uh, amazingly, according to a
postmillennial story by Victor Davis Hansen, um, the number of New York City
shootings is at a a low and the murder rate is way down. And believe it or not,
they had zero shootings and murders on Independence Day. And it's the first time ever,
zero. On a day when shooting would be the easiest to shoot because there's fireworks anyway, you know, so nobody
would maybe nobody would even know it was a gunshot. You'd think that the 4th of July would be a big murder day, but
uh Eric Adams is doing something right, current mayor, because it's zero. Not
only that, but in the first six months of the year, New York City saw the the lowest number of shooting victims and
shooting incidents in recorded history in recorded history.
And he's not going to be reelected. Are you freaking kidding me?
If you give me a mayor who in six months or however long he's been around
can take your murder and violent record down to levels that nobody's ever even seen before.
How does that guy or gal not get reelected?
what you know if it's really because and I do believe that's probably because of
changes that he made because remember he was a he was a police person before he
was a mayor. He knows what he's talking about. He knows where the the levers are for decreasing crime and he must have he
must have pulled those levers. Um, how in the world does Mom Donnie get
elected when he wants to defund the police and he's running against an ex police
person who apparently has pushed all the right levers and got an almost
unbelievable success. I mean, it's hard to even imagine that you could have gotten it to the level that it was
historically a low. The only the only bit of cold water I'll
throw on that is that um there is an age
element to violence. Uh older people are less violent. And as our population ages
and there are fewer young people in the cities compared to old people, probably
the violence would go down a little bit just because the demographics were older
people. But that didn't happen in 6 months. So whatever this is is probably
Eric Adams. And he's he's a really good communicator
in my opinion. He he has the charisma, etc. So if he's not standing all over
this, he ought to be. I saw a post on X from a user called
Mila Loves Joe who said that every single store in San Francisco's Market Street, that would be like the main
street of San Francisco. Every single store on Market Street has closed down.
Now, I went to Super Grock and said, "Is that true?" It turns out that's not
true. But there are a lot of stores, a lot of stores that closed down. But
here's something I didn't know. That of the dollar losses from all the crime,
and crime is the reason that they closed down. Um, 85% of the dollar losses were
from organized gangs. So, it wasn't even, you know, organic
onesies and twzies and, you know, some people got together and said, "Oh, let's hit target." That that happened, too.
But 85% of the dollar losses were organized gangs sending in big groups of
people to a particular store. So I wouldn't see retail in San Francisco
coming back until they could figure out how to handle the gangs. And I'm not
sure how they do that. Anyway, according to the New York Post,
Andrew Court is writing that most Americans now can't afford even what he calls a minimal quality of life.
Uh minimal quality of life means that you can, you know, eat and you've got a shelter, but that you could afford a
little bit of entertainment, just a little bit. Um, and they define that as
a little bit would be able to, let's say, you know, buy some tickets to a baseball game or something that you
wanted to watch. Um, so that's pretty bad.
But, uh, here's what I would ask. Does it seem to you that the Amish are
unhappy and they don't buy tickets to events and watch,
you know, mo blockbuster movies and stuff? So, it seems to me that um that's
not the end of the world. Um in a perfect world, everybody would have enough money to do all the fun things
that they want. Of course, uh if you're an NPC, you can remind me of that. But
doesn't it seem to you that we're just not organized as a society for the
things that make us happy? As in big families, families are getting smaller,
but big. Have you ever noticed that if you see a family get together, any
members of the same family, that the rate of laughter goes through the roof?
Do you ever notice that you will laugh more with your family members than anybody else?
the I don't know if that's that's not just my experience, right?
I'm pretty sure that that would be common for other people, too. So, if we had bigger families or people had more
access to other cool people their age with things they have in common, I don't know that we're worse off because we
can't go to a baseball game in person. You know, if you've got your phone, you
can get entertainment you can watch. you put it in your earbuds, it sounds better than it does in person. And if you hang
out with cool people and, you know, people who make you happy and love you,
you'll get your dopamine. Um, it would be better to have money,
but it doesn't mean that you can't have enjoyment. Um,
where's all the money going? Well, Lel Cfield, writing for Breitbart News, is
reporting that uh LA lifeguards are making up to $500,000 per year.
You probably think that I misspoke and I didn't really mean that LA
lifeguards, the people at the beach, are making half a million dollars per
year. You thought that wasn't real, right? No, it wasn't real. They don't
make up to They don't make up to $500,000 a year. It's actually up to 700,000 a year. There was one one
lifeguard made $700,000 in one year with overtime.
So apparently they're well- paid in general and lots of them made over $200,000
being lifeguards, but some of them uh mostly from overtime I believe got
$500,000. So you wonder where your money's going.
It's going to that muscular guy and the speedos up in that chair.
Well, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Kamini,
uh, he made his first public appearance since the war. So, so that that means he's back in
charge, right? Everybody believe that? Do you believe that the Supreme Leader
is still the Supreme Leader? Or is it
possible that he's being pushed in front of the camera so that you think he's
still in charge, but that maybe the military or somebody else is really calling the shots? Cuz remember, he's
86, so he's not exactly a fireball anymore.
Well, I did see uh one report on social media that suggested that uh he's not in
charge. He's a figurehead at this point, but there was no confirmation of that. It was just somebody on social media.
So, I'm going to double down on my prediction that someday we will learn
that he's not in charge. How many people would buy into that?
I feel like he's not in charge anymore, but we'll find out. Well, apparently uh Iran uh shut down
the idea of meeting with the US for nuclear talks. Uh there was some rumor
that there was going to be a meeting not too long from now in which Iran and the US would talk about what works and what
doesn't for their domestic nuclear program. But uh now they're saying
there's uh public opinion is so angry no one even dares to talk about diplomacy.
That's according to ESL Begali. Um so
let's see the foreign minister. So it looks like we're not going to have any talks there.
Um, speaking of Ukraine, so Zilinski had a conversation with
Trump in which Zilinski uh said it was their most productive conversation yet and he says that Trump
is very unhappy with Putin and Trump has said the same thing. Um,
but uh Trump has also said recently that Putin does not want to work toward a ceasefire deal. All right. So now Trump
has a lot of uh credibility and ego and
um I guess reputational risk if he can't get the Ukraine situation sorted out and
reasonably soon. If he waits till the end of his the end of his four years,
it's not going to be nearly as impressive because you you're just going to say, "Well, they just got tired of
fighting." But what levers does he have left? Because it seems obvious at this
point that Putin thinks he's winning and is right because he's still capturing
territory um and doesn't have any reason to stop. He's just going to keep going. What
possible leverage does Trump have? He's already starving Ukraine of weapons
because the US needs them, too. And we don't have enough weapons. I don't know which ones, but things like uh
anti-rocket missiles and stuff we need for the United States to protect our own
assets. So, what is Trump going to do? Is Trump
going to go wildly sending them new weapons or is Trump going to
put extra super duper sanctions on Russia? And I'm always surprised. It's like, is
there some sanction we haven't put on them yet? Have we really been involved in a war for years and there were
sanctions we could have put on Russia that for some reason we didn't?
I don't know what's left. So, if you were to look at this as any other
president, if it were not Trump, you would say there are no levers. The war is going to keep going until till Russia
owns all of Ukraine. I mean, that would be the obvious direction it's going. But
when you're talking about Trump, suddenly all bets are off because he
does have that magic ability to find the one solution that nobody was even
talking about as a solution. You know, something that's so far out of the box that you never even thought of it. Now,
can he pull the rabbit out of the hat with this? Is there something he could do or promise or negotiate that would
get Putin to back down? I don't see it, but it will be very fun to see if he can
pull that rabbit out of a hat. So, the fact that I don't see any way he can do it doesn't probably doesn't predict that
he can or can't do it. That would just be my own limitation.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what I've got to say today. I knew I'd go a little long because there's so much news
out there, but you deserved it because it's Sunday and you like the long ones.
All right. Um, to my beloved subscribers on locals, I'm going to come to you
privately in a moment. And the rest of you, thank you so much for joining. And
uh, come back tomorrow, same time, same place. Probably be a little shorter tomorrow. All right.
local supporters.