It's about time. Come on in. Happy 4th of July.
It's good to see you again. Pick up a chair in the front so I can
look at your smiling face. Well, happy 4th of July. Happy birthday,
America. And while all the lazy people, the lazy
podcasters are taking the day off. Not me. No, I'm here for you.
Good morning everybody and welcome to the highlight of human civilization.
It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and you've never had a better time. But if
you'd like to take a chance of improving how you feel, even though it seems
impossible, well, to do that, all you need is a cup or a mug or a glass, a tankered shell, a
canteen jug or flask. What else? A vessel of any kind. Fill it with your
favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled pleasure, the dopamine hit of the day, the thing
that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous set and it happens now. Go.
Ah, thank you, Paul. All right.
Well, let's uh check in with science and see if science is enlightening us at
all. Well, here's a story from the New York Post. It says that just one hot dog a
day may increase the risk of colorctyl cancer.
So one hot dog, just one hot dog a day would increase the risk of colarctal
cancer. Well, that raises a interesting question. What would happen if you put
the hot dog in your mouth instead? Everybody? Anybody?
All right. It's hard to do a copy. It's hard to do a joke
live stream because there's no feedback. So, I don't know if it just went clunk
or if you're laughing yourself to death. But that was a heck of a good joke.
Well, according to Joe Nova, whoever that is,
there's a unexpected change in the sea ice around Antarctica where there are
1.5 million square kilometers of sea ice that are missing. Missing meaning
melted. Now, you're probably saying to yourself, "My god, they've proven
climate change is real because of all that Arctic, Antarctic sea ice that
melted." But it's the opposite because the the climate models did not predict
that there would be a sudden massive decrease in ice. And not long ago when Antarctica was
moving in the other direction when it should have been melting there was a massive increase in ice that also the
climate models did not anticipate. They they think it might be because the
melting might be because of a change in salinity in the ocean. You know more
more salt equals more melting. But they don't know for sure.
But uh you know what I'm going to say next, right? Do you know what I'm going to say? Oh, I'm going to say it. Goes
like this. Wait until you find out about the climate models.
Honestly, it's going to be one of my best weeks ever. Someday, and it's
probably not far off. It might happen in the next year or two. Someday there's
going to be a whistleblower who says, "I worked on climate models and I can tell you for sure they're
complete and we just do it for funding." Oh, it's coming.
It's coming. Well, another sign of the golden age,
um, Idaho National Laboratories is putting together a nuclear micro reactor
test bed. So, this is a US government project. So the reason you need a micro
reactor test bed is that if you want to build and design a innovative small
nuclear power plant um there might be a number of resources
you need to test it and uh perfect it. So now the US has a place that you can
take your small nuclear reactor design and test it out. Now how much do we need
that? A lot. A lot. We really really need that and we
haven't. So another sign of the golden age.
We're going to maybe catch up with other countries like China and the nuclear
department if we keep doing things right.
Well, uh Elon Musk says that Grock, the AI has improved significantly
um as of today. So, it was released today, a new new version. And I did a
little test. I think I told you um before the upgrade
um just two days ago maybe I I asked Grock to tell me what I had contributed
to society not counting Dilbert and it hallucinated like crazy.
So, I'm reading the list of all the things that says I contributed to the world and I don't know, half of it was
made up stuff I'd never seen, participated in, you know, had no connection to. And I thought to myself,
huh, another perfect application of Gilman amnesia.
Now, you all know what that is because you're regulars. But in case there's somebody new here, that's an observation
by a famous physicist whose last name was Gal Man who noticed that when he
read a story about physics in the news, it was always wrong.
But that's because he was an expert on that field. But the moment he turned the page, he would see an article on some
other industry or field and he would assume that that was accurate.
And then eventually he figured out, wait a minute, what are the odds that every time I know something about the story,
it's inaccurate, but when I don't know anything about the story, I assume it's accurate. Is it possible that they're
only inaccurate on stories that I know something about? And that's when he
correctly generalized that to the idea that the news is probably inaccurate all
the time. Well, sure enough, when I asked Grock
before the upgrade, so this is just yesterday, the day before, um, it was
hallucinating really badly. So, if you were doing a school report and you were,
you know, going to do it about some public figure and you used AI to find out about me, oh my god, would your
report be wrong. And then I go and how many times have I used grock in just the
last week? A whole bunch of times. And I've even reported to you about what he
said. I'll do it today actually. Uh number of times, but I assumed that all
the things Grock was telling me on those other topics that were not about me, I
just figured those were true. But again, what are the odds? What are
the odds that the only thing it hallucinates about is me?
Very low. Vanishingly small. So, I don't know how much of the other stuff it
hallucinated, but boy did it hallucinate about me. So, I tried it again today
um with the new upgrade being announced. And I don't think
I'm not sure but uh oh the the only thing it got wrong uh
all the other details were accurate for the first time. So the upgrade really made a difference. The one thing it
didn't get right is understanding my cancellation.
But to be fair, it didn't describe it the way the internet would. It's just
that the internet doesn't have the right answer either. So, I'm going to give that an A+ because even though it was
wrong about the one thing that sort of matters the most to me, um it was not
out of whack with what the internet in general says. So, you know, I'll accept
that even though even though it was wrong.
All right. So then I asked Grock, "Who is the first
public figure to refer to Democrats as quote theater kids?" What do you think
Grock said? When I asked it who came up with the idea that the Democrats were
quote theater kids, just acting out. Well, Grock said that it was Scott
Jennings, who you know is a superstar conservative on CNN.
And so I went back to Grock and I said, "When is the first time that Scott Adams
used the phrase theater kids?" And I went back and found out that three
months before Scott Jennings said it on TV that I had been tweeting it or
posting on X. And then I said, "Did you get that wrong? Why did you tell me it
was Scott Jennings?" And that as soon as I asked you a deeper question, you correctly pointed out that that I had
said it, you know, 3 months before he said it and it said, "Oh, sorry. You
know, uh, it took me a a deeper look based on your question and then I
realized I got it wrong, so I corrected it." So as soon as I soon as I dug down a little
bit, it you know it it was hallucinating. Now
what I don't know that it was hallucinating, but I think what it did is is stopped looking after it satisfied
itself and found the answer and it didn't look at yeah at me. So
and by the way, I don't know that I invented that. It may be something I heard, but I heard it before Scott
Jennings did. So, I don't know. I don't know if I'm if I had any role in that other than
repeating it. Do not know. Um, so then I asked it who who was the
first political person who used the phrase the golden age to describe
Trump's um administration, the golden age. What do you think he said?
Well, um, apparently Grock isn't able to search on
old Twitter, you know, back into 2016. So, it said it had a limitation there.
Couldn't look back that far. I don't know why. Um, but when I pressed it, it said the
earliest Golden Age reference was by Scott Adams.
put I didn't even know where it was. Apparently, I used that phrase in my
very viral 2015 post
that was right after Trump had announced in 2015. And I wrote a post called Clown
Genius. And I said that uh if Trump becomes president, we will enter a new
golden age of persuasion where facts don't matter and outcomes do. Does that
sound like a good prediction that we entered a golden age of persuasion
where the facts don't matter? That's pretty much a precise explanation
of everything you see in politics right now. It's all about persuasion. So, I nailed that. But I don't uh I do not
believe that that reference caught on. So it's more likely that the golden age
is a common enough phrase that more than one person would come up with it as the
appropriate way to describe uh you know Trump world. So I would not take credit
for theater kids nor for the golden age
except maybe you know maybe the minor credit for being on the same page was something that caught on but I don't
know who said it first. I may have been influenced by somebody. Hard to know. I've told you before that
one of the ways I try to track my own influence because my the size of my
podcast is relatively small compared to you know the top 20 people that you
could think of off your top of your head but it's more
it's more uh influential in my opinion than
most or maybe all of the political podcasts. It's hard to know, but uh one
of the ways I track my influence or try to is by the presence or spreading of
unusual wording. So whenever there's unusual wording that's not historically
common, if I thought I was either promoting it or saying it first, both of
them would be similar. Um if it if it catches on like the golden age was
trending on X today. it was one of the top trending things um that I think that
might have been me but I you know you can't know for sure.
Anyway, Newsmax is reporting that uh managers are now using AI to decide on
employee raises. Most managers um so the majority of managers
according to Newsmax are using AI to determine raises.
Do you believe that? Well, I don't know if it's true, but
it's definitely going to be a Dilbert comic next week. Talk about writing my comic strip. Using
AI to give uh performance reviews. Oh, I like it. I like it a lot. Especially
when AI hallucinates. Oh, I like it good. So, that'll be that'll be a
Dilbert comic coming up. Breitbart News.
Uh Kurt Zindulka is reporting that u entrylevel job hirings in Britain are
down by a third since chat GPT was introduced.
Do you believe that? Do you believe that the existence of chat GPT
is why Britain is uh way down in hiring
uh entrylevel people? Well,
it might be true that chap GPT was introduced and it might be true that
they're way down in hiring, but I do not believe that a third of the entry-level
jobs are being performed already by AI. Does anybody believe that? Now, I do
understand AI is a big productivity booster for programmers, but that's not really an entry-level
job, is it? When I think of entry-level jobs, I think, well, maybe answering the
phone, you know, are they replacing some phone workers?
Um, I don't see it. To me that looks like a um sort of an unexplained stat but I
wouldn't explain it by AI because it would be happening in the United States as well. If onethird of the
uh entrylevel people in Britain were replaced already with AI that would
already be happening in the US and there's no way you wouldn't notice.
It would be impossible that we didn't know it by now. So, I'm going to say I got some skepticism
about the connection between AI and entry level hiring going down. Might be.
I mean, I wouldn't say zero chance that they're related, but I'm pretty sure you
would see examples in the US, and I haven't seen any.
All right. Um so the DOJ is uh joining with the
lawsuits against the uh alleged media tech giant collusion.
So this is according to reclaim the net Dan Free is writing about this. Um so
the accusation is that uh some big media companies like
BBC, Reuters, AP etc. um
they're they're up in arms about alleged suppression of independent media.
Now I so I guess I would assume some collusion.
Um so do you do you think that's a uh good
thing? Well, I think so. Uh what is this about? uh they're
accused of stifling independent journalism. So not having uh necessarily
links to independent journalists, you know, more like just giving it to the big guys. But I think there's a bigger
problem now that Google's AI is answering questions um as soon as the
search results come up. So people are less likely to even click on a link. So
if you were a, you know, big existing media giant and you depended on a lot of
traffic coming from Google, well that's all going away really fast
because Google will give you the answer. You don't have to click on the link. So
that's a big change in the world. We'll see what that does.
Well, according to Fox News, uh the Pentagon is claiming that the
strikes on Iran's nuclear project set back the program two years. To which I
say, is that a success? If it's only two years,
doesn't it seem like unless it's completely stopped that it would be not a success? Cuz in
two years they're going to know more and act faster and um be more angry than
they were before. I don't know. Two years doesn't sound like a big success. Unless the real
story is that they won't bother to try because they'll get bombed again. and
they would get bombed again. But um how many of you think Iran is just going to
say, "Ah, it's not worth it. We're not going to build up our nuclear
capabilities." It just doesn't seem possible, does it? I I feel like they're going to try as
hard as they can to rebuild it. They've already kicked out, you know, the the UN
watchdog group whose job it is to make sure they don't do that. They just
kicked them out of the country and the watch group said that they could
probably start re re-refining uranium in a matter of months.
So I don't know what to believe about that, but we'll see if they're afraid.
Sorry, I've got something in my lungs. Um, yesterday I recorded a podcast with
Jordan Peterson for his podcast. They uh I didn't see him in person, but
we were remote and his uh camera crew and audio guys, well, the ones I hired,
uh, came to my house, so we converted one of my rooms into a little studio.
Sorry, going to die here. Um, and
I think you're you're going to like it because we we were planning to go an
hour and 15 minutes and we just sailed through that. We were I think we were
well over two hours and I probably could have talked to him for another two hours
because everything he says is interesting and uh we just had a great time. So look for that. I'll let you
know when it's released. It'll be on YouTube most of it and then some portion of it will be on uh be on a subscription
wall for the Daily Wire. Should happen fairly quickly. I'll let
you know. Um New York Post is reporting you. How many times have you heard this story? But it keeps happening that uh
MSNBC and CNN's ratings continue to fall through the floor at the same time that
Fox News ratings are sharply up. So if you were going to say to yourself,
hey, it must be that people don't want to watch TV news.
Nope. Fox News proved that if your content is good, your your viewership
goes up. I don't know how much of that is is
because uh Greg Guffeld and uh and Jesse Waters in particular
um are monsters of entertainment at this point. You know, they're they're in that domain. The domain is news, but they're
both just monsters. um that you know they bring a whole different dimension because there's
nobody on CNN or MSNBC that is like either one of those personalities and I
think Jesse learned what he learned from Greg which is a great mentor to have by
the way. Um, what Greg brings to his, you know, two top rated shows on Fox
News is unpredictability and he doesn't say what everybody else
is saying and uh he breaks all the rules and he goes for the greatest
entertainment and you know it. So, if you're watching him, you know, he's going for the joke. He's going for the
he's going for the show. And watching watching Fox News, even, you know,
including the other shows, is a whole different experience. So, I can completely understand why
they're just destroying the field. Anyway, that story seems to repeat
itself every month or two. Well, they're down again, but Fox News is up again.
So, I told you that CNN, um, in my opinion, and I could be wrong
about this, but it'd be weird, um, seems to be trying harder than I've ever seen
them try to talk about the news in the middle of the
road instead of just being an anti-Trump, you know, bias machine. Now,
they do have their biased people like Anderson Cooper is ridiculous.
He He doesn't look like he even belongs on the network anymore. I think he's they say he's getting paid $18 million a
year. I'm thinking, really? Is that just to make the CIA happy? I mean, does he
even does he even work for the network or does he work for some intelligence group that wants him to say bad things
about Trump? Well, it's hard to tell if you watch him. But the other the other
hosts on CNN uh a number of them seem to seem to have very much and very
obviously looked for the middle and we see more of that. So um
in the last uh few days the CNN hosts have been willing to say that's about
the best two weeks of any president's performance ever.
Trump's had the best summer in the best six months and the best two weeks that you've ever seen. Just unbelievably
successful. Um, and so CNN just frankly just admits that now. They they just say it
directly. It's like the best two weeks. Um, but Hakee Jeff
tried to stop the big beautiful bill with a with a filibuster, which is just
one person talking for as long as they can to delay it. What exactly did he think he was going
to accomplish? Did he think he was going to f filibuster it until it couldn't get done
on July 4th? or did his filibuster guarantee that it
would be done and signed on July 4th, which it will be today,
which made it even a better show than it would have been if he'd signed it on July 3rd. If Trump had signed it on the
3rd, you really can't beat a Trump signing of his most signature important
legislation on July 4th. How do you beat that?
But anyway, Hakee Jeff is another theater kid and uh instead of offering
something constructive, he decided to put on a one-man show that nobody cared
about it. It It's almost like the poor man's Cy Booker.
If you added Corey Booker and Hakee Jeff together, you would have a person with
normal eyes. Think about that. Cy Booker has these
big saucer eyes and Hakee has these sinister half-closed
eyes. So, they're always half closed like like he's scheming.
If the two of them got together and had a child, totally normalize somewhere in between.
Well, as you know, the House has passed the big beautiful bill and Trump's going to sign it today. And uh
here is another example of what I've taught you. This is a
little persuasion lesson. Do you remember I told you that artificial deadlines work really well even when
everybody knows it's artificial? So when Trump said we want to get this signed by July 4th or ideally even on
July 4th, did people say, "Oh, that is a very
important deadline. If you miss that deadline, we're all dead or something?" No. There's no reason it couldn't have
been on July 6th, right? You would tell yourself, "Well,
we get exactly the same outcome two days later." But there is something magical
about having an artificial deadline. That's what the July 4th deadline was. Very artificial. And they hit it.
If you were going to bet, would they hit the artificial deadline?
It's not guaranteed because there, you know, a lot of variables in play, but it
would have been a good bet. You know, the the odds of them hitting the artificial deadline are way higher
than you imagine. And it's because people just organize for deadlines and they modify their behavior for the
deadline. Even if they know the deadline's kind of BS, it doesn't make that much difference. I mean, the
country wouldn't go out of business if it got signed on the 7th.
So, artificial deadline for the win. What did Trump have to do to get the
bill passed? Well, apparently he made a bunch of vague
he made a bunch of vague unspecific promises to the hold down
and they're all reporting that that that satisfied them. His vague unspecific comments. So, one of the complaints was
it doesn't lower the budget enough or it doesn't address the deficit, which you
know that's debatable depending how you calculate it. But um instead of making
big cuts, Trump said, "Oh, I'll take care of that with my executive orders
later." Sort of a big vague promise.
And that was enough to get the um I guess the Freedom Caucus got on board.
So the Freedom Caucus of course wanted, you know, to be more aggressive, taking
down the debt. But here's your other persuasion lesson.
Um, it's called the fake because. Now, you've heard me talk about it, but
every time you see an example of it in the wild, um, it'll reinforce it. The
fake because is a reason you give somebody who wants to change their mind,
but they need you to give them a reason. So, this is somebody who really, really wants to give you what you want, but
you're going to have to come up with something that sounds like a reason, even if it's sort of ridiculous and
fake. So, do you think the Freedom Caucus
believes that they will get, you know, much lower deficit because Trump will do
some executive orders about something or other in the future? Do you think they believe that?
I don't I don't think they believed it. Now, he might take a swing at it, you
know, because he is good at keeping his promises, but I don't know if it's possible. I mean, how many executive
orders can he do that would reduce the deficit? So to me that qualifies as a fake
because you know you know the Freedom Caucus wanted to keep Trump happy
because the alternative is very bad for the people who didn't keep him happy. You know they might get primar so they
wanted to say yes but they were on record being you know hard-nosed about the deficit. So how do you balance that?
You want you really want the president to get his way because of all the blowback if he doesn't, but also you
support the president, but at the same time, you've gone on
record saying you would never support something that that might be negative for the budget.
So, you have two impossibles. They solve it with a fake because, oh
yeah, no problem. Now, we're going to say yes and vote for it because the
president said he'd take care of it with his executive orders sometime in the future. Unspecified.
That's a fake because used well, by the way. So, it's not that's not a
criticism. It's actually just a lesson. So, you can make your own judgments
about it. All right. Um,
Treasury Secretary Scott Bassant says that uh markets anticipated this
bill was going to pass. I think he's right about that. And markets understand
the non-inflationary growth that we're going to get here. All right. So Scott
Bazant, who I find very credible, um says that the bill will reduce the
deficit over its, you know, full 10 years or whatever. Um but it's because it will spur growth.
So there will be more economic activity because of the bill and that will create
more income for everybody and that causes more taxes. So, so they actually
if you look at what they call a static versus a dynamic analysis,
um static means that they just look at what the bill does and dynamic means
that they look at what the bill does um immediately as in what dollar amounts
are allocated, but they also look at how that might affect um the overall
economy. And if it goosees the economy, that's not included in the official
numbers you usually see. So Scott Bent says it's gonna um make the economy grow
faster. So my question was, and I asked this of Grock, which part of the big
beautiful bill is going to make the economy grow faster? Because there's a whole bunch of stuff in there that's not
directly related to making the economy grow faster. I mean, you could argue it,
but it doesn't seem like that's designed to do that. And Grock said that the tax cuts
would be part of the stimulation. But then I asked it, how often do tax
cuts uh increase government tax revenue?
And uh Grock said, and remember I just gave you a whole conversation about how
Grock might be hallucinating. I'll just tell you what it said. And if you want to fact check that, please do.
But it said u President Kennedy did a big tax cut in his day, but that's when
taxes were like 90% on rich people. You reduced it to like 70% or something. And
apparently that did increase revenue of uh you know tax revenue coming in. But
one of the problem that all the presidents have if they do anything that increases uh income for the IRS
Congress figures out is just guesses it's free money and they start spending it. So even if you did increase the
money coming in for taxes, Congress would look at it and they wouldn't say, "Oh, finally these tax
cuts spurred the economy on and and now we're going to reduce our deficit." They
would not do that. Instead, they would say, "Looks like we got another hundred billion to
spend. As long all we have to do is go back to the deficit we had, and it
didn't kill us last time. So, you have to be careful about these
stimulus packages because even if they work, Congress could snatch away the
benefit almost immediately. And uh then there was the Reagan tax cuts that according to Grock did not pay
for themselves. I know you think differently, but according to Grock, it did not pay for itself. And there were
Bush tax cuts that according to Grock, again, it might be hallucinating, but
Grock says did not pay for itself. And it says that the Trump's first term tax
cuts, the ones you've already seen from his first term, did not increase
um or did not decrease the deficit? So, is Scott Bent right
that the big beautiful bill will uh improve the deficit?
Well, it's not just tax cuts. It's also um 100% expensing of assets for
manufacturing. That's a pretty big deal. Um he talks about no tax on tips or
overtime and a deduction for senior citizens for something, but all of those
are essentially tax cuts. So, how many of you believe that the
Trump big beautiful bill will boost the GDP so much that it pays for itself? How
many of you believe that narrative?
I'm very interested because I think most of you would just side with Trump
because he, you know, his credibility is kind of high at the moment because he's had such a good six months. But do you
believe that? Well, I think the answer is it depends.
Yeah, it depends. There there is a way it could work. It could definitely work,
but maybe not just because of the bill. So Trump is doing a lot more than just
the big beautiful bill, right? Um what about uh reducing
the number of migrants coming across the border? So that's in the bill. If it reduces the
number of migrants coming across the border, wouldn't that give more jobs to
citizens? And wouldn't that be a good stimulation that maybe we didn't include yet? Could be. Could be a big deal.
What about boosting the military? Well, if boosting the military spending
causes another country to say, "We don't want to get in a war with you because you've got a lot of toys over there."
Well, that would save us the cost of a war, which would be good for the deficit. So, pretty much everything the
government does has either a direct or indirect effect on the deficit.
So, I don't know that you could ever calculate which way it's going to go. Too many variables. And I would compare
this to climate models. The reason climate models are ridiculous
is because you can tweak it to be anything you want based on the assumptions that you put into it.
That would be true with this deficit reduction stuff and the big beautiful bill. Depending on what assumptions you
made, it would either be wildly positive or wildly negative. And the assumptions
are things that are unknowns. So if you believe anybody's estimate,
Scott Vens or anybody else's, I wouldn't do that. I mean, somebody's going to be right and
then afterwards they'll say, "Look how right I was." But it's only because it's a binary. It's either going to increase
the deficit or it's not. And there going to be people on both sides. So, somebody's gonna say, "See, I
told you because there's only two ways it could go. It's either up or down."
But can you can you calculate that with any kind of degree of certainty in advance? Nah, not really. Not really.
But it's definitely possible. And as I've said before, um Trump is the only president who could
maybe make that work because he's a salesman and he is selling America hard.
He's got the he's got the tariffs going on. He's got the trying to stay out of wars, which is a real good idea. Um he's
closing the border. You know, he's doing a lot of stuff that should be good for the economy. He's reducing regulations
like crazy. He's promoting nuclear energy in just the right way. As far as I can tell, he's he's jewel baby drill.
So, it's just one thing after another that Trump is doing that should
have a uh you know, good impact on the economy. So yeah, there's a solid
possibility, not because of the big beautiful bill, but because of all of the things that
Trump is doing, that he could goose the economy enough, especially if he gets uh
Jerome Powell to reduce the interest rates by a point. If all of that came
together and at least by May of next year, I'm sure there'll be an interest
rate reduction because you'll have a new uh new head of the Fed, somebody that Trump puts in there. Uh if you put it
all together, could it goose the economy enough to reduce the deficit?
Yes. Yes, it could. The thing you have to watch out for is what I warned you of
that Congress says, "Hey, look, we reduced that deficit." I guess that's free money we can spend on our other
stuff. That's the thing you got to watch out for. All right. Um
here are some examples of CNN trying to uh find the middle of the road on their
their bias. Um, so the CNN host Sarah Sidner was talking to Debbie Wasserman,
prominent Democrat, and uh, the CNN host said, "Here are some things that have happened. Gas
prices down, economic indicators are decent. The brand new job report shows
that much better than expected and border crossings are down. And now
Trump's mega spending bill looks like it's going to be passed by Republicans."
and she said, "How how do you Democrats fight back with the winds that Trump can
tout?" Now, is that middle of the road? It is.
It's It's a really good example of them trying hard not to be just full of TDS
because the things that she lists as Trump's accomplishments are all real.
That's almost exactly what you would have said, right? I mean, you would have said the same thing. He did all these
things. Gas prices are down, blah, blah, blah. So, they're not denying him, as you might imagine before. In the old
days, I think they would have said, well, you know, Trump didn't really have anything to do with the jobs,
so you can't give him credit. But they don't do that. They just say that Trump
has had a whole bunch of wins, which is the way you would have said it.
Um, see also were uh surprised and in a positive way
that the jobs report was so strong. So instead of saying, "Oh, this is Joe
Biden's job report because Joe Biden set us up so that the jobs this year would
be good, you know, that's sort of what you expect." Didn't do that. They just
said the jobs report was incredible under Trump. you know, full credit they're giving
him. And then uh CNN's uh Burman, he's one of their
hosts. He said, "Predictions of job losses and inflation due to tariff policies have been wrong. That doom just
hasn't happened yet." He did throw in yet. So, it's hard to break habits. So, he
had to have had to give me a little bit of yet. But that's fair. I I also say
yet on on that the question of the tariffs it's possible that the tariffs
will cause a little bit of inflation but I would say the the optimistic view
is the strong one right now that it probably won't and it might be just extra revenue for for America while
inflation stays in a reasonable place. Good chance of that.
And then uh Trump said now that he's got the big beautiful bill passed. Trump was
at an Iowa rally and he said uh that he's working on a mass amnesty for
millions of illegal farm hotel and leisure workers. Um
does that sound like exactly what you didn't vote for? Mass amnesty of uh
undocumented workers in this country. Now, it's not all of them. It's the ones that are in
the farming and hotel leisure business. But do you also say to yourself, "Well,
that's mighty convenient because Trump is in the hotel leisure business and
it's probably exactly what his properties want." So, there's a little
bit of uh conflict of interest there. But as I've said a million times, and
I've said it about not just Trump, when things are completely transparent,
they just don't bother me as much. It would be the lying and the coverups that
would bother me. But if a guy who's famous for owning hotels tells you he's going to do something
that's good for the hotel industry, I say to myself, "Okay, that's
transparent. You don't have to wonder if he thinks it's good for his own properties. That's
just a yes. So is the only reason that he would consider this that if you throw in the
farm workers, it looks like it's not just about hotels and he can he can act like the industry forced them to do it,
you know, with their good arguments. Well, um to me the interesting part of the
story is that he has he has so much credibility now with his base because of
his great six months that he can reverse himself on something that probably
matters quite a bit at least in people's minds and they would consider this as he
says the the radical right the radical right. Um, I haven't heard him use that
phrase before, but he's minimizing the people who would disagree with him on this. Even though it clearly is a
reversal of what you expected, but he's created so much credibility
that if he does a reversal of, you know, one item that you thought you thought
was going to go the other way, my reaction was, "Oh, all right. We'll
see how it works out. Um Joe Rogan
was saying, and it's important because the only reason I'm mentioning this, he's he's got some comments about the uh
deportations. Um the only reason I mention it is that Joe Rogan's platform is so big and he's
I don't call him a a Republican. I don't think he's ever been a Republican, but
people do consider his opinion, you know, worth, you know, worth their time.
So, he he's just sort of a middle of the road common sense smart guy. So, when he
says something, it's not like random people saying it. He's got a big platform and he's created a good
reputation for his own opinion. So, I listen to him when he talks. And what he
said was um about uh the mass deportations, he says it's insane the
targeting of migrant workers. Uh not cartel members, not gang members, not
drug dealers, just construction workers showing up on construction sites and
raiding them. Now, we don't have a need to have a conversation about whether Joe
Rogan has the best take on it. Um, I tell you because
that's probably a pretty common opinion at this point. You know, maybe people don't say it out loud and especially
pundits who are proTrump like myself. We probably don't say it out loud enough,
but you know, that's my opinion, right? You know, when when Trump was saying we're going to start with the worst
first, I said to myself, you know, you'll never get done with the worst.
But if we get rid of the worst and you close the border, we will in maybe just
a few short years, we'll absorb the ones who already came. They're already working. They're probably paying taxes.
And uh yeah, I would treat the people who were productive members of society
differently. I I I would probably not deport them at all if I were president.
So I would agree with Joe Rogan on that. However, let me just say as clearly as I
can, if you were in the camp of, well, screw that. They came here illegally,
you have to send the ball back. And no matter how much it hurts employers, no matter how much it hurts the economy, no
matter how much lack of empathy it is, what we voted for, you might say, is
send the ball back. So that's all I'm that's the only thing I'm going to accept. And so you would feel maybe
backstabbed by Trump because he's softening up on the farming and leisure
leisure industry. But uh my my own opinion probably matches Joe Rogan
exactly. So I'm just being transparent as well. I
completely understand your argument if you think send the ball back is what you voted for and what is best for the
country. I get it. I understand every bit of that. And if there's one thing
I've taught you, it's that people don't make decisions based on facts.
This is an example of me not making a decision based on facts. I do not have a
factual argument. I have an emotional one. My emotional argument, and I would
bet without knowing that Joe Rogan has the same emotional argument. It goes
like this. I've had a lot of interaction with undocumented
um south of the border people and they're wonderful people and they're
just trying to make a better life and to me they feel like Americans, you know,
no matter how much they still have their accent. They're they're religious, they're family oriented, they're here
for work, they're they're here to stay out of trouble. They won't even drive over the speed limit because they don't
want to get picked up and deported. So there's there's a bunch of people who if
you were going to rank how much you liked them, you know, just your empathy, you would rank them pretty high even
compared to the citizens who are already here. And some of them are some of them are unpleasant.
Now that it's a completely different argument than the ones who are criminals, you know, we we all agree on
shipping them back. Um, but I would say that my empathy gene
makes me argue to keep the ones who are doing everything right.
But if you say I don't know anybody in that community and uh I'm using, you
know, my logic and my facts and saying if we send them all back there'll be Americans who take that jobs. It's all
good for us. I get that. I get that. I I I would love to tell you that my logic
on this debate is better than your logic. It isn't. I'm completely aware of
the fact that whatever my logic is is really just a positive feeling about
that community in general because I spend a lot of time around them and that's it. I just have a an empathy
response that I turn into an argument.
All right. I saw somebody asked this question. You can remind me who it was.
Uh because it was a public figure. Um why is it that only western countries
are expected to have open borders? Have you ever noticed that? Like nobody's nobody's on Putin for saying,
you know, you really need to open your border. You know, even as a side conversation,
it's just not a conversation. What about China? Do we ever say you we're not going to do
a trade deal with you unless you open your borders? It doesn't even come up. Is Japan opening their border a lot? No.
It's basically English-speaking white countries that are being asked to
destroy themselves with unlimited immigration. And whoever it was who said this first,
I wish I could credit them because it's it was a good observation.
I don't think there's any way this is a coincidence. It looks to me like countries that would
like to destroy the United States and Europe and other, you know, white
dominant countries. It looks like an attempt to simply destroy white people
and white people's assets um for whatever reason, you know, either
for their own domination or because they're mad at us or whatever it is. But
to me, it's just purely racist against white western people. And that would be
a good enough argument to ship everybody back.
So if you look at it as an attack, which is sort of the view that I'm starting to
come around to, I don't think it's a bunch of Americans who have a different opinion about the border. It feels to me
like our enemies have weaponized citizens in this country who are
unwittingly working for the opposition. The opposition being let's say China or
Russia or somebody who doesn't like us. So to me the border the open border
thing look like an attack
and sort of a modern way that countries fight. Instead of having wars with bullets, they influence and they do
dirty tricks and they they infiltrate and they send their spies over. If you
look at the number of Chinese spies that are being captured in America, it's an
alarming number of spies. You know, if I asked you, what do you
think is the total number of Chinese spies in America? I don't know what you'd say, but I almost guarantee you
would guess too low. I feel like they've really flooded the country with spies, and we don't, you
know, we don't have any sense of how many there are. Maybe Iran is at the same time, maybe some other countries.
Um, but to me, the open border looked like a
military action that was disguised as something else. So that's my current
view. Uh the blaze is reminding us that if
Trump gets away with doing a new census where he does some executive order and
doesn't doesn't count um non-citizens that uh blue states would lose a bunch
of representatives and maybe red states would gain them. uh wealth that would
gain him in comparison um and could completely change politics
in this country. So just as the Democrats trying to bring in a bunch of
voters, um if Trump, you know, uses the census and his
executive orders to minimize their impact, he could be able to lock in a much um
something like a Republican majority for a long time. So the stakes are very high
on that question. All right. Uh I saw a post by Fiser King
64 who is a great follow on X. Um he
said that after Trump no future president will be able to pretend that he cannot close the border. It will be
impossible to say that the only way to control illegal immigration is through a
quote comprehensive immigration reform that amounts that amounts to amnesty.
Now, what do you think of that? I'm going to say that the comprehensive
immigration bill was a hoax. It was always a hoax.
And your news sources, except for Fox News, never told you that that was fake.
So on CNN and MSNBC, they would let pundit after pundit after freaking
pundit say, "Oh, we we could close the border, but the only way to close the
border is with a comprehensive immigration bill that basically would let a lot of people in."
And you probably said to yourself, "Well, I know that's not true. We can
definitely close the border without a comprehensive immigration bill. And then Trump comes in and immediately does it.
He closes the border tight as a baby's ass.
Is that a saying? No. Tighter than a gnat's ass. It's smoother than a baby's
ass, but tighter than a gnat's ass. So he closes the border tighter than a
gnat's ass with no comprehensive immigration bill.
Can Can we finally admit that the comprehensive immigration bill was
nothing but a hoax and that even the Democrats knew that they were lying about the need for it? They all knew
they were lying. Come on. They all knew it. So that hoax is buried. Might pop up
again. Who knows? Well, Trump said at his Iowa event, he
said that uh the celebration for the country's 250th birthday, which is next year, uh might include a a UFC fight on
the grounds of the White House lawn.
Oh my goodness. Does Trump know how to put it on a show? So apparently Dana White would be either
tasked with doing it or he volunteered. But can you even imagine
a a more Trump-like spectacle than a UFC fight on the grounds of the White House
for the 250th anniversary? I mean, I just want I just want to stand up and
give that like a a full ovation. Put that in the category of things that
only Trump could do. only Trump, no one else. And by the way, I'm not a fan of
UFC. Uh, you know, to me it's brutal and you
know, but it's like a car accident. I would definitely watch it.
I would watch it. I mean, 100% I'm going to watch it if he does it, but you know,
it's not my preferred sport to watch, but it is entertaining. So there's that.
Only Trump could do that. Well, the New York Times um has this story in which our favorite
communist Zoran Mandani uh apparently got into Colombia where he
got his degree, I believe, uh by claiming he's black.
Now, he's not black and he's never been black, but he he was born in Africa of
two Indian parents. And he and when he was uh he was asked about that, he
admits he's not black. Um and he would never claim he was black, but not too
long ago, he claimed he was black to get into Colombia, and apparently it worked.
So, did he take the spot of a black applicant? I would say yes.
Because if they let him in thinking he was black and those were spaces that
they would have given to black applicants, yes. Yes, he took he took a
black applicant's job or college education, I guess, first.
Um, so that might cause him some trouble. We'll see.
Well, Bill Aman, famous investor, billionaire Bill Aman, who uh has been
quite active in at least posting on X about politics. Um he's decided to back
Eric Adams. Um and he had a very long post as as
Bill Aman famously does. His his posts are wonderfully long, but always well
argued. So, he has the longest posts that are also still worth reading. So,
he's got that going for him. Um, but here's one of the things that he said in
his uh analysis of Eric Adams versus Zoren Mamani. He said uh that quote,
"Adams, not me, but Eric Adams is also always authentically himself. His smile
is real, unlike the other guys. And in my experience, the more authentic
candidate always wins. There it is. So, Bill Aman, either because he heard
me or somebody that heard me say it, um, is starting to focus on Mam Dani's fake
smile. I told you that when as soon as you hear the the criticism about his smile, you
will never forget it. How many of you have looked at him since I mentioned that his smile is creepy? How many of
you have seen a picture of it and said to yourself, "Oh man, I I didn't really
notice before, but his smile is really creepy." Tell me in the comments how many of you
how many of you were were instantly flipped to see his smile as a negative
when in fact it was maybe one of his strongest political assets.
Did I reframe that? I did. Now I'm not saying here once again uh I would not
say that Bill Aman was influenced by something I did or something that somebody else copied and then he saw.
So, I I have no reason to believe that, but I do believe he's very smart and
insightful and may have just come to the same conclusion that his smile could be
seen as a negative. Um, and I would double down on his his
statement that Eric Adams seems genuine. I don't know if any politician is
genuine or authentic. You know, maybe that's never a thing, but he does seem like it. You know, whatever Eric Adams
is talking, even though he's, you know, not my he's not my reference on every
policy, but whatever he's talking, I say to myself, there's a common sense,
authentic guy who's trying to do things which obviously are good for the the city.
So every time I see Eric Adams, I have an immediate positive
vibe that that goes beyond the policy stuff. So I can see myself supporting
him even while disagreeing with some of his policies. I don't know which ones I
disagree with, but I'm sure there are some because he is really charismatic.
And he's charismatic in that Trump way where you see him as genuine and you see
his empathy and you see that he it it looks to me like he's really trying to
make stuff better, you know? I mean, it's also a job and it's politics, but he really looks like he really wants it
to be better and in a common sense way that always appeals to me.
So, we'll see. All right. Um, apparently the Saudis are not that keen to
recognize Israel and make a deal and join the Abraham Accords because they uh
are not really over the bombing of Tran because I guess they had, you know, I
always thought that Saudi Arabia and Iran were basically just enemies so that
Saudi would just be happy that Iran got uh got uh bombed back a few years. But
no, they're calling Israel's war, I think they're talking about Gaza, um
they're calling Israel's war genocide and saying that uh they couldn't they
couldn't possibly normalize with Israel without having a Palestinian state. And
since Israel, in my opinion, is never ever going to agree to having a
two-state solution, that would sort of suggest that uh Saudi
Arabia is out of play. Now, but if you have but if you introduce Trump,
who is the miracle man having the year of best year ever, could he flip Saudi
Arabia all the way from we can't be friends with Israel because we accuse
them of genocide all the way to, hey, why don't you guys be friends and be
part of this big old group, the Abraham Accords? Could Trump do it?
Well, probably. Everything depends on what the uh crown prince is thinking and
not this. I think the comments came from a a lower a lower official in Saudi
Arabia. So I feel like probably the personal
relationship with the crown prince is going to matter the most and that the crown prince is not predictable.
Um he's not predictable because you expect him to do whatever whatever Saudi
Arabia has always done. But he's just not that guy. He he could
do something that they've never done. And uh that's sort of what makes him interesting and what makes him
especially interesting if he's paired with uh Trump. Um I would love to know what he thinks
of Trump. I bet he has a really positive opinion of Trump that maybe he doesn't say out
loud so much, but maybe.
Meanwhile, uh, Vladimir Putin continues to gain ground in Ukraine and apparently
he had a phone call with Trump in which he had he showed no interest whatsoever
in ending the war. So, he talks like he might want to, but when it comes down to the actual phone
call with Trump, no, he he's happy just grinding away on
Ukraine until he guessed all. It looks like um but there's a side story here
which is there's a video of Putin was um he was on the panel on a stage at some
big event. So, there were multiple people in chairs on the stage. He's he was one of them. And he is told while
he's on stage in the middle of an event, somebody tells him that Trump is on the
phone. And he and instead of saying, you know, I'll get back to him, he explains that
leaving Trump waiting, you know, might be disrespectful and that he's going to
leave the the audience waiting instead. and he gets up and he leaves and tells him he's going to take the president's
phone call because he wants to show him the respect of immediately taking the phone call.
So Trump and Putin have an interesting
respectful relationship. Maybe that'll turn into something
better. At the moment it doesn't help us at all, but maybe someday it will.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, that is your Fourth of July. Happy birthday,
um, America. That's your podcast for the day. Like I say, there may be a lot of
lazy podcasters who don't do any content today, but I'm not one of those. If
you're going to be here, I'll be here. That's that's my deal. Or I'll try to be do the best I can.
So, I'm going to say some words privately to the beloved subscribers to
locals. The rest of you, thanks for joining. Have an amazing day today and
uh enjoy all the winds and I will see you tomorrow. Same time, same place. And
locals will