Can you hear my AC that just went on? I hope not. You don't hear the background
noise, do you? I usually turn it off,
but it got me. Game on just when I went live.
All right, come on in here. Grab a seat up front. It's going to be wild.
A good time will be had by everyone. All right, let me get my comments going.
You sound great. That's what I want to hear. I want to hear that I sound great
and look great and act great.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the highlight of human civilization. It's called Coffee with Scott Adams and it's
the best thing that ever happened to you. But if you'd like to try to elevate this
experience up to levels that no one can even understand with their tiny shiny
human brains. Well, for that you're going to need a copper mug or a glass of
tanker gels a canteen jug or flask of vessel of any kind. Fill it with your
favorite liquid. I like coffee. And join me now for the unparalleled pleasure of
the dopamine end of the day. The thing that makes everything better. It's called the simultaneous sip. And it
happens now. Go.
So, so good. All right. What do we have here? Thank you, Paul.
Well, I saw a trailer for the new Superman movie, and boy was I surprised.
Did anybody see the the ads for the new Superman movie?
I didn't know what I was seeing. because it looks like they're actually going to do a movie where Superman will
be played by. And I don't know this for sure, but it looked like a straight
white man is playing Superman in a new movie. Honestly, I didn't see that
coming. I was really expecting kind of a albino black disabled lesbian kind of a
situation, but no, they have boldly gone where nobody could go lately with a
straight white protagonist. So, I might check that out unless they
have somebody tied to a chair. That's that's my rule out for any movie.
Did you really need to tie that guy to a chair? All right.
Well, if you watch soccer, you know that the Gold Cup concluded yesterday and
Mexico and the US were in the finals. And uh the better team won. Mexico look
like they're just a better team, frankly. Um but
was it predictable? Was it predictable that Mexico would win? Apparently, Mexico doesn't usually
beat the US soccer team. I didn't know that, but I learned that yesterday. Uh, but this time they did. Well, have I
ever told you that the best story usually wins? The best story
usually wins. Now, this is very related to my other point of view that the most
entertaining uh outcome is the one that's most likely. The best story and the most
entertaining outcome are kind of the same. Now, if you were going to use that to predict who would win
in the context of Trump closing the border and getting tough with Mexico and
the Mexicans being very unhappy, I would guess with at least the government of
the United States at the moment, who is more likely to win? the bully,
which would be the United States, even though it had nothing to do with the soccer team, or the victims of the
bully, which would be the Mexican soccer team, but again, not the actual players,
just the idea of one country versus another. And so, if you would use that
standard, which is weirdly predictive, it is so predictive that the best story
would win, the best story was Mexico winning. And uh they they played like they wanted
to win. It was pretty pretty fun to watch. Um we'll get to the news in a
moment, but I have to tell you about the inedible sandwich.
Somebody invented a sandwich that's you can't eat. I discovered this by door
dashing that sandwich. So, all you have to do to make a sandwich that actually can't be eaten is
you get a nice uh crunchy hard baguette kind of a French bread roll.
And then you put in between the two pieces of bread, you put really soft
things like avocado and tomato and um
other things that are soft and squishy because when you bite into the hard part, your teeth won't go through the
hard part because it just compresses the sandwich into the soft stuff. So by the
time you take one bite into the sandwich, 100% of the contents are on your lap.
Now, I tried everything. I tried everything, but it was a
sandwich that couldn't be eaten. It was an inedible sandwich. Have you ever had
one of those? And, you know, as long as the bun was much harder than the contents, there was
no solution. So, I ended up, you know, just eating with my eating the contents
with my fingers and throwing away the bun. But uh probably that was the healthiest
thing I could do. Throw away the bug. Well, according to Elon Musk, the uh
algorithm on X has been tweaked and improved so that you could uh maybe
discover smaller accounts that have good posts. But I'll tell you one thing it didn't do
is it did not change my bubble. I don't even remember the last time
Democrats saw something I posted on Axe. And I don't remember seeing anything
that a Democrat posted. I get exactly one troll every time I make a comment
that's in any way positive about Trump or Republicans.
Always one. And it always looks like they're they're operating off a a troll
kind of instructions cuz they all say the same thing. Now, you might see it. So, if you if you see
it in my account someday, you'll know what it is. They say they don't even they don't even comment on what it is
that I'm commenting on. Instead, they leave one comment and it's always just one person and a different one each
time. That's how I know it's organized. and they'll say, "Is this how you plan
to spend your remaining days on Earth?" So, they mock me for being uh having a
terminal disease. And and then they don't even mention
anything that's wrong with what I said. They just try to shame me into thinking
that I should not be spending my final minutes worrying about such things. One
a day. Now, if I got 10 of those a day, I'd say, "Oh, that just must be people
are terrible." But it's one on every political comment. I It just looks
programmed really. So anyway, I have no access to any Democrats. So nothing I say influences
anything unless it gets to somebody like Trump and you know maybe he quotes it or
something. But I could talk all day long and no Democrat would ever see it. Just a couple of trolls, that's it.
So that's not ideal. Um so Elon has uh said he's thinking
about building a solar gigafactory. So that would make uh solar panels and the
batteries that would uh store it. Now I would like to go back to all of you who
told me there is no economical way to introduce solar into the network you
know for part of the grid. But why would Musk be even thinking about it if
there's no way to do it economically? Do you think he would depend entirely on
government subsidies? I don't think he would gamble on government subsidies at the moment
because he's pretty uh going pretty hard at the government. We'll talk about that. But uh it seems to me that betting
on Elon Musk is a smarter bet, especially about technology and the
economics of that technology. It seems like agreeing with him is a smart play.
Um, but people have decided that he's the only person in the world who can do
50 genius things in a row. And then the moment there's something that you feel
like you care about, you think that you're smarter than him.
It's the damnest thing. Like I love people's ego. Oh yeah. Well,
on this topic that I don't know anything about, uh, I read an article once, so I guess
I'm smarter than the smartest guy in the world. Maybe not, maybe not.
Anyway, uh in a related news, according to interesting engineering, China, uh
one of their big tech giants, Huawei, uh just filed a patent for a battery
that they've juiced to have an 18,800 mile range for automobiles. And it's
solid state EV. And uh they they filed a patent. They think it can get over 1,800
miles in one charge and charge 80% of it up to 80% of it in five minutes. Now,
I'm not saying that Elon would use that technology because Tesla would probably invent its own stuff, but I would bet
you that somewhere in Tesla, there's a laboratory where they're testing all kinds of new battery manufacturing and
and storage. And this one would be about three times better than normal, two to three times
better than normal batteries. So if you're betting on batteries and
solar never being competitive economically, you really have to calculate in the fact
that it could improve by, you know, 200 or 300%
within a year. I'm not saying it will, but its potential is it's going to improve, you
know, maybe five times, 10 times in in 10 years.
Um, I changing the topic here for a second,
I had an interview, uh, I guess you'd call it that, a podcast with Jordan
Peterson the other day. Now, it's not published. It'll be on his site, not mine. So Jordan Peterson was nice enough
to um talk to me for a few hours. I'll let you know. I'll let you know when it's on YouTube.
But one of the things he mentioned is that envy um is a motivator. Like if somebody
envys something, it it'll get you off the couch, but not in a good way.
And I was thinking, you know, that really explains a lot of what we see that we think is politics
because if you're doing fine yourself or you expect to do fine, then Trump
doesn't bother you. But if you're not doing fine and you don't expect to do fine, the fact that
he's a billionaire who's had this privileged life and everything seems to work out for him and, you know, he's
he's got beautiful women in his past, etc. you probably have a lot of envy. Same with uh Musk and also same with the
MAGA base because the MAGA base at the moment is getting everything it wants.
Well, not quite. We'll talk about that. Um but they're also happy. Imagine being
one of the 50% of Democrats who are depressed and being treated by a
therapist and you put out 200 job
interview requests and got no answers at all. So, you can't even get a job and
pay for your groceries. And those darn maggot people seem to be working and
having babies and having a good time. I wonder if envy
is something like 80% of all political opinion. If you're a socialist, it's
really about bringing down the people who did better than you, right? It it's not even as much about improving the
people at the bottom as it is about reducing the distance between the top
and the bottom. So this kind of changed my uh my filter
on life. I used to think, oh, there must be a hundred reasons to not like somebody or
something. But what if there's only one? If they're doing better than you, you
just don't like it. Now, I've got a uh unique um window into
that because I was born in a town where I was not one of the the rich ones. You
know, we were we were on the lower end of the economic spectrum, but I was directly across from a ski slope where
all the richest people hung out. So, every every morning I'd look out this big window and uh I'd be standing in the
house that my parents literally built with their own two hands because they couldn't afford to buy a house. And I'm
looking at all the rich people skiing because you actually see them skiing. And you see their big houses on the
mountain. And I would I would be filled with envy and it would be very
motivating. And I I would think, damn it, I'm gonna have to be a lawyer or a
business person. I got to make some money. I gotta compete with all these
rich people on the mountain. So, I definitely feel it. Um, I think
envy probably describes most of life, but there are two kinds of envy. The
benign type, which is what I just described, benign as in all it did was
motivate me. But it definitely motivated me. And then there's the malicious type
where somebody says, "Hey, wouldn't it be a good idea to destroy a Tesla
dealership?" That would be the bad kind. And you saw
how easily people went into I mean, were were you amazed at how easy it was to
get people to destroy Tesla automobiles? Do you think that was just a political
opinion? No, that was envy. I think that was envy disguised as some kind of
political action. Well, as you know, Elon Musk says he's
going to start a third party called the America Party. Um, I would like to
apologize in advance that I will write that as American Party instead of
America Party and I will get that wrong 100 more times because that's the
problem with the name. It's easily easily confused. But, um, he hasn't filed the paperwork
yet. There was a hoax hoax online that showed some FAC paperwork filed, but
that was not true. That got debunked. And I noticed that when people talk
about Elon Musk and his third party thing that many people default to what I
call analogy thinking. Analogy thinking is where something reminds you of
something else and then you mistakenly believe that because it reminds you of
something else that the new thing will take the same direction as the thing it reminds you of.
That is not reason. It's not argument. It's not logic.
It's it's really just bad thinking. Now, I do think that analogies can give you
an idea where to look, you know, if you want to look for well, what are the problems with this idea? But an analogy
might suggest, oh, these other people tried to do that and they got this
result, so maybe you should look into that. So it might be useful the analogy
but not for winning an argument and not for predicting. Um however the third party um ambitions
of Musk reminded a lot of people of um
what's his name? Ross Perau. Now, the Ross Berau situation had so
many differences from what it is that we're experiencing that if your only
analysis was didn't work for Ross Bau, all he did was make it impossible for a
Republican win. So, that's what Musk is doing. Same thing. Well, I don't think
you fully thought it through. But it's possible. It's possible that the only thing that
comes out of it is that it makes it hard for Republicans to win. It's possible,
but as a prediction, it's not really a good prediction. It's not like one thing
leads to the other in some kind of, you know, unstoppable uh line of cause and
effect. There's a lot of lot of variables here. So, I' I'd looked at
Elon Musk's uh statements about his third party and I did a post in which I
said the first thing you need to know, I'm paraphrasing, is that he's not say
he's interested in running a presidential candidate. He said he was interested in getting a handful of
senators and house representatives who would be independent and you know
not not wed to either party so that uh you know for important things that
matter to the country they might be able to sway the total vote
and uh then Elon retweeted my explanation that he was not not planning
to have a presidential candidate in his third party. And I thought to myself,
"Oh, look at me. I did something useful." So people were confused about
that question. And I accurately accurately determined that he wasn't
planning to do that because he retweeted it. Well, was it maybe an hour later
he I found out I was wrong. So about it wasn't long, it was the same
day. He he said, "Uh, just to clarify, again, I'm paraphrasing. Just to
clarify, uh, I might someday want to run a presidential candidate." To which I
said, "Oh that's the Ross Barau problem. If he runs a presidential candidate,
that's just the Ross Barrow problem, right?" Um, and I it does seem more
likely, although he's never said this, that he would pick people who were more
likely to take votes from Republicans than Democrats. But he's never said that.
What if it's exactly the opposite? What if he went to uh get some
exdemocrats who people who were also Democrats
didn't find objectionable because these exdemocrats were not MAGA. So even you
know hypothetically let's say they join the third party and they win their election.
If you were a Democrat, you would know that they were not MAGA because they would never say any MAGA stuff. And you
might say, you know what, um, I just can't vote for Kla Harris, so I'm going to take a chance on this one. So, the
first thing we don't know is if he's going to be picking people that Republicans will like better than
Democrats like him, or maybe it's a, you know, three of three of each. We don't
know. I'm not sure he knows. It sounds like he's sort of figuring it out as he goes. Um,
so there is there is a hypothetical path
where all he does is make the world a better place. And that would be if he stays away from
the presidential choice and he gets some uh some middle-of the road standard
people who Democrats like and those Democrats say, "You know what?
I don't think we should spend a lot of money on climate change." I'll just pick that as my example. But you still might
get Democrats who say, "All right, but uh we like you because you used to be a Democrat and I can't vote for Trump and
or I can't vote for whoever replaces Trump and I can't vote for Kla Harris or some other Democrat." So there is a
there is a path where things get a lot better because Congress could make
decisions and get majorities that uh match what the public wants. It's
possible, but it's really possible that it goes the
other way, right? That all he does is weaken the the
Republican party and then nothing gets done. It's just, you know, total total
skunk fight. But the uh the thing that amused me most
there's a number of people who are sure that although Elon Musk has conquered a number of unrelated fields that this
would be the limit of his ability that he could figure out how to you know put a rocket to Mars and build electric cars
and put a put a chip in your skull. He could do all that but you know there's
no way that he understands people. He only understands machines and software
and hardware. Does that sound anything like true to you? Do you really
believe that the guy who's one of the best posters on X doesn't understand
people, the person who made products that people can't resist, such as Tesla?
Do you really think he doesn't understand the market or how people react? Do you really think he got all
those people to have tents in the hallway at his AI company and they're
sleeping overnight and he, you know, he got that to work cuz he does the same thing. He just sleeps there until a
problem is solved. Do you think that's because he doesn't understand people?
I would argue that he understands people as well as he understands
hardware and software, which is a lot. I don't see any evidence whatsoever that
he doesn't understand people. Now, I do see evidence,
certainly not conclusive, that there might be something bipolar going on
that, you know, every now and then he he uh he goes further than even he wishes
he had gone and pulls it back. So, there's something going on, but I don't
think that that's new. And probably, you know, that's probably one of the driving forces behind his success that, uh, if
you're bipolar, uh, if you're having, you know, the the manic phase, you can get a lot done. I
know this because I'm a little bit bipolar. Um, it doesn't affect my life
because I don't get the the down. I only get the up. But every now and then I'll
get this what has to be a manic phase that my last two or three weeks and wow,
can you get stuff done? Unbelievable. So, I'm not sure that any of that's
going to predict what's going to happen. But let let me just give you this caution.
If you believe that Elon Musk is brilliant enough to do all the things that he obviously has done, but you
believe he has this one area that he's not brilliant and you know more than he does about it, you should check your
thinking because the hypothesis that you know more than he does about anything
about anything is a little sketchy, right? And even if you do know more than
he does about, let's say, politics, how long is it going to take him to figure out more than you know, an afternoon?
Politics isn't that complicated. Neither are people. People are not terribly
complicated. They they follow incentives. If you knew that people followed incentives and they're they're
also driven on envy, you would be almost done in understanding people. How many
times have I told you, "All right, let's predict predict something about this by
saying follow the money." I say it all the time. I mean, I didn't invent it, obviously. It's an old
saying, but it's an old saying because it works. Are people really that hard to
understand that you think that Elon Musk is the only person who can't figure it
out because he's some sort of a a robot or something? No, I don't know if it's
going to work. I don't know if he's bluffing. I don't know if he is really just trying to create some leverage to
get a few things he wants. We don't know what's in his head and we definitely don't know how this third party thing is
going to work out. Um, if you want a take on it, I would say at the moment
I'm not sold. So, I wouldn't personally join it. Uh,
because I don't know what it's about or, you know, who's going to be in it. But, could he upgrade it to the point where I
would? Yes. It's within the realm of possibility. I'm not I'm not tempted at
the moment because there's not enough clarity. But maybe someday I'd have to hear an
argument I've never heard. And the argument I've never heard would be the one that says this is how this makes the
world a better place. If he can sell me on that, that he's figured out some kind
of clever workaround to make the world a better place with a third party, I'm all
in. I'm all in. And I might be because the odds of him making a good argument
are pretty good. The other possibility is that after he's
you know he's he's struggled with it a little bit that he decides there's no path that makes sense. So that's
possible. So either one of those is possible. So I'm going to reserve judgment. But no, I'm not uh I'm not
thinking can't wait to join. All right. Um,
so I saw a post on X by U M A I R H and uh the poster said, "Do
you guys think the fall of the Roman Empire was also this incredibly stupid?"
Uh, I've spent way too much time watching History Channel and YouTube
videos about ancient civilizations that were dominant during their time and then just
disappeared. You know, the the Romans, the Incans, the the Mayans, you could
just go down the list. And it's very sobering cuz when I was a child, I
believed that I would never see the end of the American Empire.
But I'll bet you Great Britain once thought that too. Oh, we've conquering half the world. Probably the Mongols
thought that. So, it turns out that uh most of the
dominant uh civilizations eventually fall. Um Elon Musk answered this fellow on
Acts when he said, "Do you think the Roman Empire was also this incredibly stupid?" And Elon said, "Yeah, they
wrote about their own demise extensively." Did you know that? That you don't have to wonder what caused the
Roman Empire to fall. They were writing about it as it was happening.
And guess what? It was too much debt.
Guess why? Because they needed too much of a military to defend themselves. And
there was too much envy. I'm making up that last part. But in the sense the
people who wanted more kept pushing for more and as they got
more they ran out of money and then it fell apart. Now I may be of course
oversimplifying it greatly. It could be that other civilizations died because um
these Spanish concungistadors came over and gave them deadly diseases and then
six months later they were all dead. So there are lots of reasons could be floods, could be natural disasters,
could be wars, there are lots of things that can destroy a dominant empire.
But I'm going to summarize it this way. Given all of the civilizations around
the world, if you if you think about all the countries and all the micro civilizations within those countries
everywhere, there would be thousands of them, right?
And there are only a few um countries that have dominant civilizations.
You know, US, China, maybe the European Union, you maybe
maybe you throw in Russia, but they're they have kind of a tiny economy. So my take is this. It's very rare for
all of the variables to line up for any one country to be a dominant civilization.
In other words, it's like me hitting putts from 15 ft. Sometimes all three go
in from 15t away. I did that the other day.
But far more likely I miss all three or make only one. So it could be just so
obvious that what's going on is that if any civilization becomes dominant like
the US is or was and the UK was that the
odds of it staying that way are just vanishingly small because everything had
to be right at the same time and that would be rare. So I'm not so sure that you can you can
look at somebody else's example like Rome and say well Rome had this set of
problems so we might but again it's an analogy so whatever problems they did
have you'd probably want to look there first say well I got an idea what we
should look at should we look at our debt and uh that's why Elon Musk's
contribution is so important cuz we were sleepwalking toward complete ruin from debt. And he didn't stop it,
but boy did he stop the way we talk about it and think about it and the priority we put on it. And uh and look
how hard he's fighting to try to reverse it. So, I don't know.
Did Rome have that? Did Rome have an Elon Musk with the X platform and
billions of dollars uh fighting as hard as he could to stop the spending from ruining us?
Is it possible that we have the variable that fixes
stuff and we're not the same as all those other civilizations that failed.
It's possible. It's possible that we've attracted the right kind of people who
are fixers that no matter how bad the problem is, as long as you have enough
time that you can pull together the right people and say, "All right, we're
dead if we don't fix this." So then you fix it. I don't know if Rome could have
done that because they didn't have the right kind of communication to find the smartest people and and motivate them,
but we do. So I always think that the existence of the internet which is allow
which allows you to gather resources and information and wisdom from far places
and concentrate them where they need to be that it could be that the internet is
a thing that allows a dominant civilization to stay there a little bit longer. you know, unless there's a
nuclear war or new co that kills you,
which might be. Well, meanwhile, President Trump has threatened to impose
a 10% extra tariff on top of his existing tariffs for any countries that
align themselves with the bricks. So, the bricks are those uh those smalish,
not small, but nons superpower countries.
Uh well actually Russia's in there and China's in there so they are superpowers. Take that back. So there
would be sort of like a anti-American block of powers trying to make sure that
the US doesn't have all the economic um clout
and uh Trump's making sure that they don't go too far by threatening them with tariffs. Will that work? I don't
know. It might. They he already scared them off from pursuing a currency that's
not the dollar. They were definitely pursuing that and he threatened them and
they said, "Oh, we'll put that on hold." So threats do work. We we've seen the
tariff threat work now a few times, right? And uh I guess uh Trump is now sending
out a hundred letters to various countries that did not uh get a trade
deal done with us. And uh Scott Basant is framing this rather cleverly. Uh,
Bent is really good on the interviews and on the public stuff, but instead of
saying, "We gave up on getting deals, so we're just going to send them a letter telling them what they're going to pay
in tariffs," he says, "That is the deal." And he's not wrong. No, we have a deal
with a 100 countries. There's a hundred countries that had all the time in the world to make a deal with us, and we
were willing to make a deal. It didn't happen. So now the new deal is we'll tell them
what they're going to pay in tariffs and that's it. That's the deal. Now if they
wanted in the next uh 3 weeks uh because
I guess it won't go into effect until August 1st. If they wanted to, the US
would say, "Oh, do you want to try to get a proper trade deal that isn't just
us charging you more with tariffs?" And uh we would say yes to that. Yeah, we'll
do that. Absolutely. But I like I love his reframe that instead of failing, so
we're just sending them the bill, we have just succeeded, but in a shortcuted
way. The shortcut is we don't need a new trade deal. We're just going to sign the
bill. That is the new trade deal. I kind of love that. Uh Basant is really good
at framing issues. Um
and Dan Dana Bash asked Scott Bent. She goes, "That's not a deal. That's a
threat. That the threat would be that you know they're they're going to have to pay more in tariffs." And Bassen
says, "No, that's the level. That's the deal." Good reframe.
Thailand apparently did come up with a deal. So Thailand negotiated a deal and
uh they're going to import more US natural gas and more of our corn to reduce the uh trade deficit with
Thailand. So that's good. And there they offered to cut levies to zero on many US
imports, not 100% of them, but many of the important ones. And uh
they said it's not just about reducing tariffs, but also about opening up trade. So there you go. Thailand
did the smart thing by negotiating when they had a chance to negotiate. So probably they're getting a better deal
than they would have gotten. I hope they did. All right. All right. You want to talk
about Epstein, don't you? So, apparently the Justice Department,
if you haven't heard this yet, if this is the first time you're hearing this, it's going to make your head explode.
But the Justice Department just released a a 10-hour video or some say 11-hour
video of the what they say is Epstein's jail cell to show that nobody went in or
out. And therefore, they have concluded that he did he must have taken his own
life because there's no video of him going in and out. Now,
didn't you didn't you understand that there was no video of that? But where did they suddenly come up with some
video of that? It wasn't a video of the cell. It was a video of the access to
the cell. And then I looked at the video and I said to myself, I don't even know what door this is. I don't know what I'm
looking at. What the hell is this? And other people weighed in. And
apparently you do not see anything that would tell you whether anybody had access or not. Some of it is because it
looks like there's an edit that might have lost a minute. Some of it is it wasn't even looking in the right place.
Uh some of it is if somebody was already in there before the 10-hour video, they
could have got it done and then left afterwards. So, no, the video that they're showing us
has no persuasive value to any of us. If if any of that convinced you, no. Cuz we
didn't even get really a straight story about what video existed. And I guess
they said that the video cameras didn't work in his cell. Well, that's a pretty big coincidence.
Uh now, one of the possibilities that they didn't look into is that there was somebody already in that general area.
um you know before the video or or even that the video was in the wrong place.
May maybe it wasn't even where you could tell if somebody got in there. But so we
don't believe that. But it gets better. Not only has the Justice Department
declared that it was definitely a suicide. Um but the systemic review revealed no
incriminating client list. There's no client list.
You know how all of us for years have been saying, "Well, why don't you show us the client list?"
And now their now their official pronouncement is there was never a client list.
Now, that might be true. It might be true. There was never a client list. Maybe he didn't write that stuff down.
But uh so there was so he wasn't murdered
and there was no client list. Um and there was also no evidence that
he blackmailed prominent individuals,
no suicide, no client list, and no evidence that he blackmailed anybody.
Okay. Um, and we did not uncover evidence. This is a Department of Justice. We did not uncover evidence
that could predicate an investigation against uncharged third parties.
They didn't find any evidence that would make some non-Epstein person
that was involved with him guilty of a crime. Nothing.
Well, end wokeness. One of my favorite accounts to follow on X
pointed out that in 2019 the FBI raided Epstein's home in New York City, not the
island, but his home, and discovered hidden safes with computer discs and stashes of footage.
Um, do you know what happened to all those computer tapes and uh computer discs?
Take a guess. You want to guess? They went missing.
Yep. Went missing. So now we've got the video.
The video of a cell was accidentally erased. There were no videos on the
island apparently or they went missing. And the ones from his home in New York
City, they definitely exist, but then they went missing.
So apparently Galileain Maxwell got
convicted for doing something that had no victims and no evidence of any crime.
What did they convict her of? I'm a little confused. And do you remember
Virginia Joffrey who recently died tragically? She was claiming that, you know, she was
victimized many times and there were many other people on the island who were victimized. Did they talk to all of
those other people? Did they talk to all of the young women who were allegedly
victimized on the island and not one of them? Not one of them named a name.
Does that sound right? So,
let's just say um and then this old man, which is the
name of an account on X, posted this. I can't believe Apistine killed himself
right before he was about to be acquitted due to a complete lack of evidence.
Yeah, why would he kill himself if there was no evidence he did any crime?
It it's so bad. You know, this is a obviously it's a crime against the
public. Don't you feel like the crime is against you at this point? Yes, you do.
The crime is against us, but it's so bad. This just seems funny.
And then Mike Benz uh reminds us on X the Alex Acasta. So he was the DOJ off
DOJ official who gave Epstein the sweetheart plea deal back in 2008.
So you remember there were sort of two waves of uh of justice against Epstein.
one got wrapped up by Ellen Dersowitz who did a good job of lawyering for him apparently and he got sort of a good
deal that nobody believed it could be that good and so he you know got out of
jail free. Um but Alex Siccasta the DOJ
DOJ person in charge of that um was quoted as saying he was told to quote
back off of Epstein because he belonged to intelligence. So that's the DOJ guy telling us
directly that he was told to back off because he's part of the intelligence network.
Do you think he would make that up? Do you think that the Department of
Justice person who was working on the case would just make up just completely
vent or hallucinate that he had been told to back off because Epstein's part
of the intelligence world? Well, it's not likely,
but it gets better. Apparently, uh, Acasta had 11 months of emails that that
were for that time period that also fill in the blank. What happened to 11 months
of his emails? What do you think? Let's see how well you can guess. Oh, yeah.
They disappeared. So, how many things have disappeared
now? V. Virginia Joffrey, the the main witness, she disappeared because she
died young for reasons that I don't know were I don't know were
innocent, but it's part of a pattern. So, we lost all this guy's emails. We
lost the uh all the videos and tapes that were at Epstein's house, and we
lost the video of the cell. And apparently the um Epstein did not
keep records of his clients.
Does any of that sound real to you? Well, how many of you remember that I've
been telling you since the beginning that even though Trump was now claiming
that you're going to see all the everything that could be seen and even though I believe that Cash Patel meant
it when he said we're going to release everything and even though I told you that I think Dan Bino is an honest guy
and when he told you that they're going to get to the bottom of it and release it, they meant it.
And even though you knew there was something there and you trusted Trump
and you trusted Bonino and you trusted Cash Patel for this topic,
I still predicted that there would be nothing coming out from the Epstein files.
Does anybody remember me making that prediction over and over again? I think I probably said it 20 times in public or
posted it that we'll never see the Epstein stuff. Well, what do you think
now? Now, I'm sure some of you felt the same thing, but do you have any doubt
what's going on here? It It's almost so clownishly obvious what's going on. It's
almost as if Cash Patel and Bino want you to know the truth.
Because I'll say again, I believe that Bonino and Cash Patel are honest guys
who meant it when they said we're going to tell you everything, but they're clearly not telling us everything.
So, what would change that? It's it's exactly what it looks like. Somebody got
to them and said, "I know you want to do this. I know you want to do the right thing. I know you're honest people and I
know you promised the public. Here's why you can't do it. There would be real
problems. Like really, really big problems. As in, it might take down a
government. It might take down a government, but not ours, but it might take down some
government. So I don't even know if we're protecting our own people or our own CIA or you know that's the obvious
thing you think of but it could be we're protecting some other government or governments
and uh that's not nothing. So let me give uh Cash Patel and Dan Banchino
um and Pam Bondi too. I'm going to give them a little bit of cover. It goes like
this. if you put me in their situation and I had promised you I'm definitely
going to show you all of this stuff that that we find and then somebody came to me and said, "Look, you're not going to
believe this, but if you release this stuff, one of our NATO allies will go down and
we just can't do that." Could they talk me into not releasing it
and also lying about why I couldn't release it? And the answer is yes. They
absolutely could talk me into it. Now maybe my example is not the greatest one, but if they had an example where
people would die or nations would fall and they're nations that are our allies
or um I don't know, somebody would be murdered.
Um, I could be convinced that there was a national security reason to lie to the
public because remember if you are a spy or you are protecting national security
secrets, you are allowed to lie, right? You're allowed to lie. You're not
just allowed. It's your job description. You better lie because you're protecting
the country or some big national interest. So obviously the uh I think
it's obvious that the Epstein situation must have touched at least one um one
electrified rail and that somebody got to the people who were investigating and said, "Nope,
nope. I know you mean well, but this is not going to happen." And it could be
that they were threatened with death. You wouldn't I wouldn't rule that out. It could be that the people
investigating it, including the management, found out that no, you're going to you would be assassinated if
you continue pushing this. So, um, they may have reasons, but I was
pretty sure we'd never find out. And then in a related news, the Daily Caller
is reporting that Trump says he's quote satisfied with the FBO FBI probe into
the the Butler attempted assassination of him.
Let me say that again. The same day we're finding out that it looks like our
government's going to lie to us about Epstein forever, Trump says that of this very sketchy
kind of weird assassination attempt where none of us believe that he did it alone and he had I don't know, he had
some apps and and all that and none of it kind of made sense. Do you believe
that Trump is legitimately convinced that there's nothing there to see? It
was just a crazy guy acting independently. Do you believe that? I don't.
I think that probably it was the same phenomena. Don't know. I mean, this is just a gut
feeling, but probably there's plenty dirty in that story and
somebody got to Trump or Trump figured it out on his own and he realized that
pushing that button would get somebody killed and he decided not to get somebody
killed, especially him or his family. So, no, I don't believe that he's
satisfied with the FBI probe on the Butler assassination attempt. I don't believe it at all. I believe he said it
and I believe he wants you to believe it, but I don't believe it.
Now, um, so I'm going to summarize what I've
just been talking about this way. when I started talking about politics
back in 2016 um and I got a little bit of traction
and people started listening to me and reading my blog posts and stuff. Uh that caused a series of events where I got to
meet people who knew the real story behind a variety of things. You know,
not the Epstein thing necessarily, but just the real story behind a variety of
things. How often was the real story the same as
the one that was in the news? And the answer is never, not once.
The every story that is sort of a big story is certainly has elements that are
true. I mean, I believe the president really did take a bullet in the ear, uh,
etc. So, there are parts of it that are definitely true. I do believe that airplanes hit the uh world trade towers.
I mean that part's true. But generally speaking, the interpretation or the real
story behind everything is fake. Let me say that again. The real story
behind everything, just everything is fake. So no, you're never going to know
about Epstein. You're never going to know about JFK. You'll probably never know about uh Martin Luther King. You'll
probably never know about Bobby Kennedy senior. Um
you're never going you're never going to know for sure about the Warren report.
Um and I don't think we'll even know for sure if we landed on the moon.
So I've now gone full Joe Rogan. full Joe Rogan, which is I used to think
it was obvious we had landed on the moon. I did not question that for one
second. And when I saw people saying, "Oh, I'm not so sure," I would say to
myself, "Wow, well, people who will believe anything,
they actually think we didn't, you know, didn't really go to the moon." You know what I believe now? Same thing that Joe
Rogan believes. I think I don't like to I don't like to characterize other people's opinions, but I think I got
this one right that he doesn't know that we didn't go to the moon and I would
agree with that. I don't know that. But if tomorrow I learned that we had not gone to the moon and it was somehow
confirmed, would I act surprised or would I say, "Damn it, you can see
the signs. I should have known that." It would be the latter. It would be me
saying, "Ah, I I should have been more forceful in saying that that was
probably fake." So, let me be really clear. I don't have any
evidence that I personally find convincing that it was faked.
But everything's in play. Everything from the food pyramid to the vaccinations
to everything. It all looks fake to me. It just all looks fake. I don't know if
we know why the Ukraine war is happening. I don't know if we really know what was happening in Gaza. I don't
think we really know what was the full situation with Iran and its nuclear weapons. I feel like it's all fake. And
when we're talking about the news, we're just doing some kind of parlor game
where people who don't know anything about anything act like we do just so we have something to talk about.
That's what it feels like. But I want to be clear. While I don't
believe the official version of any big story, just none of them, I also don't
automatically believe the conspiracy theory. So if I tell you I don't believe, you
know, one of the big stories like the moon landing, it doesn't mean that I believe that Stanley Kubri filmed it. He
might have maybe, but it doesn't mean I automatically believe that.
Well, I guess uh Trump is meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu at the White
House, and I think they're going to be taking a a victory lap for, you know,
their good work with Iran. But again, just so I'm consistent with what I said,
the official story is that we destroyed all of their nuclear programs.
Do you believe that? How would we know? It's the same as
saying that the 2020 election was not rigged because nobody found any
conclusive evidence that a court has ruled means it was rigged. How would you
know if there was something that you couldn't find? It's unknowable. You You could determine if something was
rigged if you found the evidence and it it tested out. But if you don't find
evidence and you know that things like elections have been rigged in the past
and probably the United States has rigged elections in other countries. If you didn't find any sign of election
rigging, it doesn't mean a thing. It doesn't mean a thing. It just means you didn't find it. It doesn't mean it
doesn't exist. So likewise with the nuclear program, I
do believe that um it's very likely that all the things they tried to bomb were
completely destroyed. But does that mean they didn't have anything left? Nothing hidden? Nothing
in the warehouse? A different warehouse? No way to know.
Anyway, um there's talk about uh
I saw some talk that Gaza um the Hamas leadership in Gaza is
completely decimated. No, wrong word. Decimated means reduced by 10%. The real
number was 95%. So the leadership of Hamas is
down 95% most of them dead but they you know don't have good communication or
command and control at this point. So maybe
maybe there's a way to make a deal now. Don't know. Um, and then there's some some
indication that Iran wants to talk about its nuclear program, but it wants to do
it on its terms. I believe its terms are that we can talk about it all day long,
but we're definitely going to have a nuclear program, and you're not going to inspect it. So, I don't think there's
any place to go on that, but they will talk. So, I mentioned this the other
day, but um I feel like I understand a little bit better.
Um, there's an idea that instead of having a two-state solution where the
Palestinians have their own one state and Israel has the state next to it and they live in peace next to each other
since nobody thinks that that's going to work. Um
there there's these shakes who came up with the idea of having a emirate at least in one place and presumably you
could have other emirates in other parts of the West Bank but one of them would be in Hebron
and uh there's a specific shake who who they're proposing would be in charge and he would be the Amir. But here's the
part I maybe didn't mention or didn't know yesterday that uh a big part of
their their pitch is that they would uh instantly recognize Israel's right to
exist. The Emirate would and they would look to join the u
the Abraham Accords. So I guess you wouldn't have to be a
nation state necessarily to say hey we want to accept
Israel and we want to be part of this trading block that you know gets extra advantages of trading with each other I
guess and uh we'll do it as an emirate now I don't know if that has any legs
because I I would have to know a lot more about that area to know if that idea could go. I feel like Israel
probably would resist that idea. On the other hand, if you got, let's
say, two or three Emirates uh who consolidated power and said,
"Well, we don't want to rule the entire West Bank where the Palestinian Authority is, but but this little area
will be our own little emirate and we'll also accept Israel and we'll also be part of the Abraham Accords." If you did
that, you might accomplish Israel's goal of not having a two-state solution
because they would probably be happier if there were bunch of smaller emirates
that were unlikely to attack them because the Emirates apparently don't want any war. So that's that's a step in
the right direction. So maybe it's a divide and conquer
situation. So maybe Israel might consider it. I don't know. On the other hand, they might not want
um the Emirates to get too powerful and maybe they're lying about their their
ambitions. So lots of variables. Um,
so there's there's some factchecking going on on the claim that uh mayoral
candidate uh Zoran Mamani for New York City. Um, some say he's a communist and
some say he isn't. And uh a lot of it rests on the fact
that he once said in 2019 I think um that the real goal was to seize the
means of production and uh the fact checker which fact checker politact.
Do you think Politact is a reliable factchecking entity or is it a Democrat
tool? Well, did I just tell you that every
single story in the news is fake? This is not an exception. So, yeah, it's
a fact-checking organization that if you asked any Republicans, they would say,
"No, it's the opposite. It's a it's a lying organization.
They're they're there to certify lies that make Democrats happy." So, this would be one of those situations if
that's what you believe. So they said that uh
that the u the manifesto the communist manifesto
Karl Marx's work they say that that's not in there.
Do you believe that? Do you believe that? Nowhere in the communist manifesto
does it say that they want to seize the means of production. So therefore, it's
fake and it does not represent a desire to be a communist because that's not
even in the communist manifesto. Do you believe that? Well, here's what is in the
in the manifesto. According to Grock, the proletariat will use its political
supremacy to rest wre as in you know grab away by degree all capital from the
bourgeois to centralize all instruments of production in the hands of the state.
That's chapter two. That's what it does say.
Um, was it do I have the the wrong author?
I'm looking at the comments. I think you're factecking me. I'm just working from memory, so I probably got some of
the facts. Anyway, so there's your fact check. Your
fact check is nowhere does it say seize the means of production. No, no, it
doesn't say that. It only says uh the proletariat will use its political
supremacy to rest by degree all capital from the bourgeois to centralize all
instruments of production in the hands of the state. Oh well, I feel a lot better now.
I'm glad they didn't want to seize the means of production. Thank goodness.
So there you go. What about that no tax on tips? How many of you believe that no
tax on tips, which is what got approved in the big beautiful bill, meant no tax
on tips? Well, here again,
the the real story behind the curtain is different from the one you've been told.
First of all, it only goes up to the first $25,000 in tips.
If you were a uh let's say a waiter in a restaurant that had a lot of tips, how
fast would you get to 25,000? Well, if you were a full-time waiter,
um you could make $150,000 a year from
mostly tips. So maybe 50 would be your base pay and 100 would be your tips.
Now, this would be unusual. That'd be a high-end restaurant with just tons of tipping, but it would be in that range.
So, does that sound like no tax on tips to you?
I mean, it's better than nothing. And a lot of people who are working part-time especially will enjoy it.
Um, but uh they're still going to have to pay the payroll tax and their social
security and Medicare. So even though there's no tax on tips, there's an 8% tax on tips because little under 8% is
your payroll taxes and social security and Medicare. So there's still a tax on tips and
there's lots of tax on tips, but it's better than better than it was. It's just not what you thought it was. All
right, here's something that I know um I've done wrong.
Um, when the Democrats say that the big beautiful bill is going
to cut healthcare, sometimes I would see Medicaid and sometimes I would say Medicare
and they're different. And I would read the story and it would say, "But the mean old Republicans and
Trump are going to cut your Medicaid." And then I would see another story that
says um leader Jeff says they're going to cut your Medicare.
And I actually started to think maybe there were typos in the stories because
some of it would be on social media and I'd like oh it's just a typo. And I thought it was one or the other. I
didn't realize it was both. So apparently the big beautiful bill
cuts both. But what what uh Democrats call cutting,
the uh Republicans call making sure that only the people who deserve it and are
qualified for it are getting it. But they've added the added work
requirement. So if you're able-bodied, you've got a certain amount of time to either sign up for classes or do some
volunteer work or or get a job. So you've got some options. uh and if
you're an uh undocumented citizen of this country uh you would
lose in that case I think in both cases. So how many of you knew
um how many of you thought the same thing I did that it was one of them but not the other and then you found out it
was both of them. Now I'm not saying that that's a mistake. it probably needed to be both of them, but they're
very they're treated very differently. Um, and then I thought Republicans are
going to have a real problem in the midterm because all the Democrats have to do is say Republicans took away
healthcare from 12 million people. That's what they say now. And who knows
how long before they take it away from you. And that's pretty scary. Pretty scary. How do I know that's scary? cuz
yesterday I got to experience having no healthc care. So I I have Kaiser Permanente
and I think I've got shingles. So I've got this insanely painful set of u skin
problems on one side. It looks like a shingles probably. So, I used my app to
contact my health care provider to set up a in-person appointment because I'd already send in photos of it and they
had not guessed shingles, but now it looks like it's almost certainly shingles cuz I checked AI.
AI says, "Yeah, probably shingles." Um, and then my app said, um, that
there's no availability of appointments for in person. And I thought, really?
None? Not a month from now or two months from now? Like, just none?
I I really can't get any healthcare. And I thought, oh, oh, they're trying to make me do a Zoom call because you can
do almost everything on Zoom. So, I go to the other part of the app to set up a Zoom appointment. And it comes back with
there are no available appointments ever.
So, and of course, this always happens on the, you know, the the long weekends
that are a holiday. How many of you have not noticed that somebody in your family, maybe you, always has a health
problem on a holiday? Always, because that's when all the doctors go on
vacation and you're lucky if you can get anything. So, I got to experience having
no health care and also having a pretty painful health problem. I mean, it
really hurts. If you ever get shingles, good luck. It hurts like a mofo.
Um, now, fortunately, I had AI and I had other mechanisms to get what I need. So,
I'm being treated, you know, as well as I think I need to be, but I didn't have
any healthcare. So, um, I got to I got to tell you that
when you realize you don't have health care even though you've been paying for it, it's a it's a scary thing. So, if
the Democrats scare voters by saying they're going to take away your healthcare next, that's going to really
be effective. So, I was trying to think, what could Republicans do to get ahead of the
messaging? And I don't have a suggestion yet, but um something like this came to mind. So,
this will just be a brainstorming. This is not a good suggestion, but it might might make you think of a better one. Um
what if Republicans said everyone who supports the country by working, going to school, or following their laws gets
to keep their health insurance? everyone who supports America by
working, going to school or volunteering, I guess, or following
our laws, which would take care of the non-citizens who were getting it. Um,
they get to keep their health insurance or their healthcare. Would that work?
Maybe that's a little bit too uh conceptual. It would be a lot better if
there was some picture or something scary. So, Republicans are going to have
a tough time. We'll keep working on that. Well, uh, Representative Comr is going
to bring Biden's physician in for a uh conversation to find out what did he
know and what was the real situation with Biden's health behind the scenes. I
can't wait. I suspect that he will be reluctant to answer questions
because if he does, he's going to have to lie like hell and I don't know that he's going to want to do that under
oath. All right. Um,
so you know that we killer that American bread seems to have in it um called
glyphosate. And some say it's the reason that the bread is healthy in Europe but not
healthy in America is that gly glyphosate was used as a weed killer.
Well, I didn't know this but uh a lot of US bread companies had replaced
glyphosate already. So uh they replaced it with uh what's it
called? Uh, dickwat.
D I qu u a t. Um, dickwat.
I just like saying dickwat. Anyway, but apparently that replaced glyphosate is
widely employed employed in the US as a weed killer. Um, except the there's a
new report that that might even be worse for you according to the Guardian. So, the gardening has an article that says
uh this new thing that replaces the thing that you thought was the bad thing that the new thing can damage your
organs and gut bacteria according to new research.
Why is it everybody in the world can make bread except Americans? Can we really not make bread that isn't
poisonous, man?
Um, yeah, I don't like that story. Um, Taiwan's got a company
that has a uh tech platform they build to detect schizophrenia.
So, apparently they can scan your brain and then use AI. And the AI can um
accurately up to 91% accuracy identify people with schizophrenia.
Huh. And apparently it can identify other patterns as well. So that's
interesting. Um, if they can identify that you probably have schizophrenia by looking
at your brain, how long will it be before they find the part of your brain that handles free will?
They haven't found it yet, but I know it's in there somewhere. I'm joking. Free will doesn't exist.
It's an illusion. All right. Um, and then
I saw an article by Antonio Grace.
Um, he was in Damn it, I didn't write down the publication, but um, he's talking about
the problems with measuring the temperature of the earth. Um, let let's see if uh, any of these
sound like things I've told to you before. So this would be in the topic of climate change. Um did you know
according to Antonio Grasshifo that 96% of US temperature stations fail to meet
NOAA's own sighting standards and are often surrounded by essentially heat
islands. Did you know that is 96% of them don't meet the standard? I didn't
know that. I knew I knew a lot of them didn't, but I didn't know it was 96%.
So that's not 96% who were by heat islands, but just 96%
that for whatever reason don't meet the standard. Then did you know that those
uh thermometers transitioned from mercury to digital sensors
um between 1980 and the 2000s and that that same period where they
took out one kind of thermometer and put in another uh introduced what he calls
discontinuities in the data and that happens to be the period of accelerated
warming. So the very period that they were replacing the technology they used to
measure the temperature, that's the period that the temperature suddenly went up.
Okay. Why were they replacing the old thermometers?
Was it because they were totally accurate? No.
Then how about this? The early measurements were geographically concentrated in Europe
and North America, ignoring vast regions, especially the 71% of the
planet covered by oceans. So until recently, the temperature of
the oceans were ignored for climate change. The oceans,
the world is mostly ocean. and then measurement errors of plus or
minus uh half a degree centigrade um often exceeded the very climate
signals being used to justify the policies. So in other words even where they found some warming it was below
below the level that your accuracy could have told you is real if that makes
sense. Uh, worse still, says Antonio, much of
the raw data has been adjusted or homogenized. Do you know what that means? When the
data from the temperature sensors was homogenized. Have you ever heard that term?
When I tell you what it means, you're just going to shake your head. You go, "Oh, God. God, what a world. What a
world." Homogenized means made up.
It means for example if you had one temperature station that had failed you
know let's say a car ran into it and it wasn't available instead of saying oh we
don't have that data they would look at other measurements and then they would look at what that used to say and then
they would estimate what that probably was the temperature in that in that uh
measuring device that didn't exist. So homogenized means somebody used
assumptions assumptions to figure out what the temperature was.
So assumptions. Okay. Now those are the problems that you know
about. We haven't even talked about the the models.
Do you remember what I keep telling you about the d the temperature models for climate change?
So, I used to say there's no way that they're accurate. And I would try to make my argument. And now I just say
this. Wait till you find out about the climate models
cuz you will find out there. There's no chance that you won't find out.
And when you find out, you're going to say, "God, that cartridge guy was on
this early." Yeah. There is no way that the complicated multivariable
climate models are even a little bit reliable. There is not really any way that's
possible. But you've been told, the world has been told that the scientists
can do that. So there will be there will be a
whistleblower. I guarantee it. And that whistleblower will say, you know, we just sort of make
these assumptions and force it to fit where we expect people to to expect it.
And uh that's how we get our funding. That's what's it's going to happen. Wait
till you find out. All right, ladies and gentlemen. I went too long,
so I'm going to say goodbye. Thanks for joining. Um locals say hi very quickly.
Uh the rest of you I'll see you same time tomorrow I hope. and uh locals coming at you privately.